GETTING STARTED
A sauce is usually poured, ladled, dolloped, drizzled, or
otherwise added to the more substantial ingredients in a
dish. In other words, you could think of a sauce as just an
add-on, an extra. F or me, however , a sauce is the whole
point. It’s the main event, even though we might be talking
about only two tablespoons of vinaigrette. Like an engine of
deliciousness, a well-made sauce brings energy to a dish.
I wanted to write a book on sauces because I think sauce-
making is such an important and gratifying part of cooking.
Yet it’s often seen as being too tricky , too time consuming,
or not relevant to everyday eating. But none of that is true!
There are hundreds of sauces that reward you with a
hugely delicious payoﬀ for very little trouble.
My goal with this book is to show that any cook in any
kitchen can make fantastic sauces for any meal, every day .
Honestly , you can incorporate a homemade sauce into
breakfast, lunch, or dinner , and by doing so you’ll elevate
what might be a ﬁne plate of food to a meal you’re proud to
have made and eager to eat.
WHAT EXACTLY IS A SAUCE?
A sauce can be anything from a mustard vinaigrette that
you spoon over roasted beets to a red pepper hollandaise
that you nap over grilled halibut to a hot fudge sauce that
you eat with a spoon right out of the pot. No matter what
form your sauce takes, it will share the three traits that arethe source of power for all good sauces: intense ﬂavor ,
complex character , and the alchemical ability to pull all of
the elements of a dish together into a delicious unity .
The way I learned to develop those traits in a sauce is the
subject of this book. I want to share everything that I’ve
discovered about sauces through my time at cooking school
in Paris, my years as a food editor working with chefs and
other amazing cooks, and my own cooking experiences as a
private chef , caterer , and recipe developer as well as a
home cook who needs to balance the pleasure of cooking
with the constraints of a busy modern life.
I share recipes, of course, but, more important, I share my
opinions, insights, and tricks, which I hope will have a big
impact on your ability to understand and enjoy new sauces.
In each chapter , I explain the essence of the sauce, I
describe what you’re trying to achieve, and I let you know
what levers to push to get to your goal. Each time you cook
anything, you arrive at moments when you need to make a
decision that will nudge the dish in a certain direction. I
call this process “getting to delicious,” and that’s where I
hope we’ll go together in this book.
WHAT IS IN THIS BOOK?
The sauces I’ve included are the ones that I ﬁnd myself
cooking month after month, year after year . They’re
versatile, your family and friends will love them, and
they’re worth the time you put into them. Y ou’ll notice a
bias toward French sauces. That’s because I learned to
cook in France and French cuisine has introduced so many
important sauces to the culinary world. But you’ll also ﬁnd
sauces inspired by Italy , Spain, Mexico, Morocco, Asia, theMiddle East, and classic American comfort food—not to
mention sauces that simply reﬂect the ﬂavors I love. Of
course, this book cannot capture the range of sauces in
every cuisine. A big world of sauces exists out there, and
this is just my tasty little corner of it. But I think you’ll ﬁnd
that it’s plenty big.
HOW ARE THE RECIPES ORGANIZED?
Each chapter includes recipes that share a main ingredient,
a key technique, or both. F or example, all of the
vinaigrettes in chapter two share the same method and
most of the same ingredients, while the chocolate sauces in
chapter ﬁfteen use many diﬀerent methods but all are
made with chocolate or cocoa powder . My structure is
loosely based on the French system of mother sauces, in
which you have master sauces with lots of variations.
Indeed, some of my sauce types are classic French mother
sauces—hollandaise, mayonnaise, beurre blanc—and I
include a béchamel and a velouté in the chapter on cream
sauces. But I’m deliberately omitting one of the “big”
French mother sauce categories, brown sauces, because I
just don’t think they’re worth the eﬀort and expense
required of the home cook.
I’ve also included several dozen recipes for dishes that
showcase the sauces, perhaps in ways that are new to you
or that will inspire you to go beyond the obvious. Of course,
a vinaigrette is delicious on salad greens, but it’s also
lovely on ﬁsh, meat, or fruit. I want cooks to be able to
make their sauces and then to “deploy” them in inventive
and satisfying ways.
START HERE, IMPROVISE TO INFINITYThe one-hundred-plus sauces in this book are just the tip of
a delicious iceberg. Each one can be riﬀed on to bring in
new dimensions: use a diﬀerent herb, add some red pepper
ﬂakes, try pistachios instead of almonds, splash in some
Calvados. Once you understand the fundamentals of a
sauce, you can improvise to suit your mood, pantry , or
menu. Y ou’re equipped to create, delight, and nourish—all
of the reasons cooks love to cook.SAUCE ESSENTIALS
THREE KEYS TO RECIPE SUCCESS:
ORGANIZING YOUR WORK, LEARNING TO
SEASON, AND JUDGING DONENESS
When I’m just cooking rather than recipe developing, I’m
more an intuitive cook than a literal one. I make things up
as I go along, using my technical training as a framework
and then responding to the particular ingredients,
equipment, weather , glasses of wine, appetites in the room,
and mood that belong to me that day . So trying to write a
recipe that distills all of those variables and locks them into
numbers and words is hard. Every time you make a recipe,
the world and its contents are a bit diﬀerent, but here are
three constants that will give you a good chance of success
with the execution of any recipe.
DO YOUR MISE EN PLACE.  I can’t stress enough the
importance of mise en place, which is a professional
cooking term that means “prep work” (the translation from
the French is more like “put in place”). Restaurants run on
it and home kitchens should too . Mise en place is about
breaking the work into small, manageable components,
which is what I’m going to do with this explanation. Here is
how to think about mise en place:
READ THROUGH YOUR RECIPE.  You need to know where
you’re headed before you begin work so that you’re not
ambushed by a step you’re not prepared for , such as “chill
for 24 hours.”GATHER YOUR EQUIPMENT AND HEA T THE O VEN OR
GRILL.  Set up your battle stations, get your gear in gear .
You don’t want to be searching for a baking dish while
you’ve got ingredients in the sauté pan. And you never
want to put a dish in the oven before it’s come to
temperature. The immediate exposure to the correct oven
temperature is part of what makes a dish work. F or
example, a souﬄé batter , made from béchamel, needs to
get very hot very quickly so that the air bubbles expand
and give the souﬄé height before the protein in the batter
has time to set and restrict any more rising. If the oven is
too cool, that initial puﬀ won’t happen properly .
GATHER YOUR INGREDIENTS . Line up the food you’ll be
using; ﬁnd substitutes for any ingredients you don’t have.
DO THE “DIR TY” PREP . Before you proceed with cooking,
do the prep work that involves washing, peeling, cutting
meat— any tasks that are going to produce waste or
require cleanup. I like to have two stainless-steel bowls
handy to collect all the scraps, one for the trash and one for
the compost.
NOW , DO THE “FINE” PREP . Here’s where you chop, slice,
grate, toast—anything you’re instructed to do in the actual
ingredients list. And, of course, here is where you measure.
Please measure liquids using a vessel designed for that,
such as a Pyrex measuring cup. And measure dry
ingredients either with a dry measuring cup, which allows
you to level oﬀ the contents with the back of a knife for
accuracy , or with a scale.
You don’t have to go as far as putting each prepped
ingredient in its own little bowl, like cooks do on TV , but do
arrange every ingredient so that it is within easy reach andin the right condition. And little bowls are actually handy—I
have a ton of them.
Doing a thorough mise en place will sometimes feel
frustrating because you’re dying to jump into the recipe
and get cooking. But doing the prep work is cooking.
Having everything ready will allow you to have the control
and concentration you need to manage the parts of the
recipe where you need to watch, smell, taste, and react.
Mise en place permits creativity .
SEASON AS YOU GO . Whether a recipe lists precise
measurements for salt and other seasonings or it instructs
you to “taste for seasoning” or “add salt and pepper if
needed,” you always want to taste and adjust the ﬂavor
until it’s as delicious as you can make it. There is no way
for a recipe to provide the perfect amount of seasoning
because there are always variations in ingredients: one
jalapeño is hotter than the next, one brand of vinegar has
more kick, and these blackberries are sweeter than those.
But how do you know you’ve got the seasoning just right,
especially if it’s the ﬁrst time you’re making the recipe? I
recommend that you get in the habit of tasting at three
points of each recipe:
TASTE YOUR RA W INGREDIENTS . As you’re doing your
mise en place, pop a berry in your mouth, take a tiny sip of
the olive oil, chew on a parsley leaf , bite a bit of chile. Get a
baseline sense of what things taste like before you start,
even if you’re not sure what you’re supposed to do with
that knowledge. It will function in your subconscious.
NEXT , TASTE AS YOU GO . I try to write my recipes so that
you’re seasoning at various points along the way , not just
giving a ﬁnal seasoning once everything is together . You
want each component—the sautéed onions, the porkmedallions, the whipped cream—to be nicely seasoned and
balanced so that ﬂavors are integrated throughout the dish
and not just seasoned on the surface.
LAST , DO A FINAL CRITIQUE OF THE SEASONING . It can
be a mad rush at the end of making a dish, especially when
you’re entertaining. Y ou’re focused on getting things plated
and to the table, and perhaps you’ve had a glass of wine
already . But you need to stop, clear your head, take a taste,
and then tinker with the seasoning to be sure your dish is
as good as it can be. This ﬁnal check takes only a few
seconds, but those are the seconds that ensure that all of
your hard work up until now will pay oﬀ beautifully .
Sometimes it’s obvious that your dish needs a squeeze of
lemon juice or a sprinkling of salt, but other times you’re
not quite sure what it needs, especially if there are several
key ﬂavors contributing to the balance. I sometimes take
out a spoonful of the sauce, add some seasoning to that
portion, and then taste it to get a sense of what direction I
need to go in. That way , I’m not jeopardizing the whole dish
by adding too much sugar , for example.
AND PLEASE DON’T UNDERSAL T. I rarely get home-
cooked food that’s too salty , but I often get food that’s not
salted enough. There’s a reason that restaurant food is so
good: chefs know how to salt. I think there’s some free-
ﬂoating anxiety about salt being bad for us, but unless you
have a particular condition that calls for avoiding salt,
there’s no science that says it’s bad. And just by living a life
in which you eat food cooked from scratch rather than
processed food, you’ve reduced your sodium intake.
“DONE” IS WHEN IT LOOKS RIGHT , NOT WHEN THE
TIMER RINGS . One of the hardest aspects to quantify in
cooking is how long to cook something. W ill the broth bereduced in ﬁve minutes? W ill the fruit be juicy in three
minutes? The familiar vignette in any cooking-school
student’s memory is of asking the chef , “How long should I
cook it?” and getting the terse reply “until it’s done.”
Ingredients have inﬁnite variations: sugar , moisture,
protein, temperature, capsaicin levels, and more. Diﬀerent
pans conduct heat and allow evaporation diﬀerently and
cooktops and ovens deliver heat at their own rate, so
assigning a number to an action is useful only as a
guideline.
The best way to determine doneness is by describing what
you’re after . Brown just around the edges or all over? Cook
until soft but still holding its shape or so soft that it’s a
purée? In every recipe, I try to give the clues that let you
know it’s time to do something, so please use these as your
primary doneness tests, even if your timing is diﬀerent than
what is written in the recipe.
MAKING THE SAUCES AHEAD
In each chapter , the recipes for dishes that use the sauces
assume that you have your sauces made ahead, before you
start work on the other components of the dish. Again, it’s
important to read through your recipe and do the mise en
place. In some cases, however , it’s better to make the sauce
after you have completed other tasks. I’ve indicated that in
those particular recipes.
HOW LONG WILL SAUCES KEEP?  In each sauce recipe,
I’ve indicated how long the sauce will keep in the fridge or
freezer . These are minimal times. I played cautious, not
knowing your fridge temperature, how often your kid
reaches in for an Otter P op, and the like. Y ou’ll ﬁnd in somecases you can keep your sauces much longer than what I
say, especially those containing lots of sugar , such as the
caramel sauces.
Frozen sauces won’t actually spoil after the two-or three-
month limit I suggest, but they do lose their luster , and
their ﬂavor and texture deteriorate over time. This is true
for all food, especially if your freezer is part of your fridge.
Don’t let stuﬀ linger too long.
HOW MUCH IS A PORTION?
You’ll see that I’ve listed how much each sauce makes in
volume rather number of portions because the size of a
portion depends on you and what you’re doing with it. F or
example, 1/2 cup/120 milliliters vinaigrette could be enough
to dress ten small side salads but only enough to dress six
servings of potato salad.
GOOD COOKS CHOOSE GOOD
INGREDIENTS
A cook is only as good as his or her ingredients, so the ﬁrst
step of any good recipe really begins at the market.
Choosing the freshest, ripest, highest quality you can is an
overlooked but crucial step in “getting to delicious.”
There’s no technique that can compensate for subpar
ingredients. Here are my feelings about a few key items
that I call for in this book.
BUTTER.  I developed the recipes using unsalted butter ,
which lets you control the amount of salt you add to your
recipe. Y ou should always use good-quality , freshingredients, of course, but in recipes that rely on butter ,
like beurre blanc and hollandaise, it’s worth making the
eﬀort to get excellent butter , such as one from a local dairy
or imported from France.
CREAM AND CRÈME FRAÎCHE.  I often list these as
interchangeable in a recipe because for the most part they
are. Cream has a sweeter ﬂavor and crème fraîche is
slightly tangy and nutty because it has been cultured. I
prefer crème fraîche, but it’s not always easy to ﬁnd and it
can be pricey . Bellwether F arms makes a version that
tastes most like the French product. Crème fraîche will
grow in volume if you whip it, but for true ﬂuﬀy whipped
cream, you need to use heavy cream or whipping cream.
OLIVE OIL AND OTHER OILS . I am often asked what type
of oil is the best to use: any oil that’s fresh. I am dismayed
by how much rancid oil I encounter at people’s houses, not
that I’m riﬄing through their cabinets, of course! But even
friends who cook often have opened bottles of olive oil that
are six months old or older on their counter . I guarantee
that the ﬂavor is either very stale or downright rancid—not
pleasant to eat and not healthful, either .
All oils get rancid the longer they are exposed to heat,
light, and oxygen, even those you think of as shelf stable,
such as canola or other vegetable oils. I keep most of my
opened oils in the fridge, especially nut oils such as walnut.
Extra-virgin olive oil will solidify in the cold, but will
quickly melt back to normal as it sits at room temperature
for a few minutes.
When you ﬁrst open a new bottle of any oil, taste it so you
have a benchmark of freshness; then taste it every few days
or weeks to monitor the ﬂavor . If it tastes funny or you feela slight dryness on your tongue, the oil is probably rancid,
so throw it out and start fresh.
For the sauces in this book that call for extra-virgin olive
oil, I prefer one that is not too assertive. That type is better
“naked,” just for drizzling or dipping. The two mainstream
brands I typically use are Unio, from Spain, and Lucini,
from Italy . They have character but play well with others.
NUTS . Ditto re: freshness; nuts turn rancid easily . Store
extra nuts tightly wrapped in the freezer , and always taste
a couple of nuts before you use them in a recipe. Y ou don’t
want to ruin your beautiful pesto with nasty pine nuts.
PARMIGIANO -REGGIANO CHEESE.  I use a lot of
Parmigiano in my life. I go through mounds every month.
Adding a little P armigiano to a dish to boost its savoriness
is a frequent tactic in my kitchen (along with grated lemon
zest; those two ingredients save many a dish!). Please
invest in imported P armigiano-Reggiano—not pregrated—
even though prices can get quite steep. The cheese is
intense so you won’t use a lot, and the ﬂavor and texture
are superior to domestic P armesans. I will sometimes use
grana padano, a close cousin in ﬂavor and texture that’s an
acceptable substitute if need be.
Be sure to wrap your P armigiano well because it can dry
out and get hard and slightly piquant. Some cooks abhor
the notion of putting good cheese in plastic wrap because it
doesn’t allow the cheese to breathe, but I ﬁnd cheese
papers an inadequate protection, so I usually use plastic
wrap and apologize to the cheese. The ideal would be to
wrap the cheese in cheese paper and then pop that into a
plastic bag or airtight container , and someday I will store
my cheese that way .SALT. All of the recipes in this book call for kosher salt. It’s
not the kosher part that matters. It’s the structure of the
grains of salt, which are larger than the grains of a typical
table salt. I like Diamond Crystal brand, in the red box; it’s
sold in most grocery stores.
The large grains give you more control when you grab a
pinch and sprinkle it on your food, and the Diamond Crystal
is nicely crushable, so you can make it powdery as you
pinch, for better blending.
You can use table salt or a ﬁne sea salt as you like, but be
aware that 1 teaspoon of table or ﬁne sea salt will be
roughly twice as “salty” as 1 teaspoon kosher salt, not
because the sodium chloride is any diﬀerent, but because
the amount of salt per volume is diﬀerent. K osher salt is
ﬂuﬀier , for lack of a better term, and so less salt ﬁlls more
space. Please adjust the recipes if you don’t use kosher
salt.VINAIGRETTES
VINAIGRET TES GIVE YOU THE BIGGEST P AYOFF FOR
THE LEAST AMOUNT OF WORK OF ANY GROUP OF
SAUCES . A vinaigrette takes seconds to make, is incredibly
versatile, and when the balance of ﬂavors is right, is a
catalyst that lifts simple ingredients to a new level.
Mastering vinaigrettes will also liberate you from a
refrigerator full of bottled salad dressings. It’s crazy to buy
something from a factory when you can make your own
easily , no? Y ou will be able to create the perfect vinaigrette
for the moment in just the amount you need, ensuring
ﬂavors are fresh and vibrant. The vast world of mixed
green salads is the most obvious destination for
vinaigrettes. But many other foods beneﬁt from a drizzle of
one of these zingy dressings. Earthy , starchy vegetables, in
particular , cry out for them, so dress potato, grain, and
bean salads with a vinaigrette. (When you do, add the
vinaigrette while the food is still warm so that instead of
just sitting on top, it gets absorbed into the ingredients.
This small step makes a huge diﬀerence!) A sharp
vinaigrette will also will bring out the sweetness in fruits
and sweet vegetables, such as melon, peach, nectarine,
mango, or strawberry . Sliced tomatoes, grilled vegetables,
bread salads, sliced cold roast pork or beef , and grilled
meats, poultry , and ﬁsh are all are good with a vinaigrette.
Once you master this classic sauce, you’ll see that the
possibilities are actually endless.
I organize my vinaigrettes into three loose categories: (1)
simple, where the pleasure and ﬂavor balance come from
the tension between the oil and the acid; (2) creamy orthickened, where cream or cheese or another ingredient
enhances the role of the oil; and (3) chunky , which means
that other ingredients—think nuts, bacon, olives—are
stirred into the vinaigrette. The ﬁnal character of the sauce
is diﬀerent for each, but the method for making them is
essentially the same.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
At its simplest, a vinaigrette is made of just two
ingredients, oil and vinegar , plus salt and usually a few
more items to make things interesting. Despite the
expression oil and water don’t mix, when making a
vinaigrette, you convince them to mix by coaxing them into
an emulsion. This means that the vinegar droplets are
evenly dispersed throughout the oil, creating a blended,
cohesive consistency . For a longer-lasting emulsion, you
use other ingredients to bind the oil and vinegar (most
often a small amount of mustard does the trick). The
resulting consistency is smoother , thicker , and almost
creamy .
Why do you care if a vinaigrette is emulsiﬁed? A blended
texture means that the ﬂavors of the vinaigrette will be
distributed evenly over your salad or other food. This way ,
you won’t have one bite that’s too sharp and acidic and
another that’s too oily and bland. There is such a thing as a
“broken” vinaigrette, in which the two components are not
thoroughly mixed on purpose, so the colorful droplets of oil
and vinegar add to the look of the dish. This is more for
looks than ﬂavor , however , and for me, ﬂavor rules, so I like
to blend my dressings.WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
The emulsion can break when you don’t want it to,
resulting in oil ﬂoating on top of the vinegar . The ﬁx is
simple: whisk it again. If it refuses to stay blended, you can
whisk in a tiny bit of Dijon mustard, some egg yolk, or a
touch of mayonnaise, all of which are good emulsiﬁers and
won’t change your original ﬂavors too much.
Vinaigrettes stay blended much longer if you make them in
a blender or food processor . For small quantities, I’ll
sometimes use my Aerolatte milk frother , a tiny immersion
blender designed for foaming milk for cappuccinos. It’s
brilliant for vinaigrettes and a cinch to use and clean.
The ﬂavor balance of a vinaigrette can be oﬀ , too. It’s
important to balance the acid and the oil. How many salads
have you been served with a vinaigrette that is either ﬂat
and boring or wincingly sharp? T oo many . Here’s a useful
ratio that will help you achieve the ideal balance: three
parts oil to one part vinegar (or other acidic ingredient).
Start with those proportions and then taste and adjust until
the ﬂavor is bright and balanced. I like to lean to the sharp
side, so when I taste what I consider a properly balanced
vinaigrette, the acidity makes me shudder just the tiniest
bit. Remember , a small amount of vinaigrette is going to
dress a large amount of blander food, so it needs to be
bright and assertive.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
Typically , you won’t need much more than 2 tablespoons
per person, depending on what you’re serving, of course.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
A small bowl and a whisk are all you need. F or larger
batches, a blender or food processor comes in handy . Some
people like to shake their vinaigrettes together in a jar , but
I don’t get a very long-lasting emulsion when I use the
shake method. As I already mentioned, my favorite tool is
actually a toy of sorts: a battery-powered milk foamer that
you dip into your bowl of vinaigrette ingredients and turn
on for a few seconds.
STORAGE
Because vinaigrettes are so quick to make, I like to think of
them as à la minute sauces, that is, you make them right
before you serve them. But they’ll keep perfectly well in an
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
Beyond that, the ﬂavor ﬂattens out. Also, dressings with
anchovies taste “oﬀ ” sooner; I like to use them within 2
days. 
CLASSIC SHERRY VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This is my go-to vinaigrette, perfect for dressing anything
from a simple green salad to earthy French lentils to a
platter of grilled vegetables. Y ou can vary it by switching to
a diﬀerent oil or vinegar or by adding fresh herbs or other
ﬂavorings. I use sherry vinegar because I like its mellow ,
rounded ﬂavor and I ﬁnd it is less harsh and more complex
than most red wine vinegars. My oil choice is usually a
moderately priced extra-virgin olive oil with a fruity
character . No cough-inducing bitterness typical of a big
Tuscan oil, please. I like Unio and Lucini brands, the
former from Spain and the latter from Italy .
2 tbsp sher ry vinegar
1/2 tsp Dijon mustar d
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar , mustard, 1/4
tsp salt, and 1/8 tsp pepper . Gradually whisk in the oil, a
little at a time, until the sauce is creamy and blended. T aste
and adjust the ﬂavor balance and seasoning. Whisk again to
blend just before using.STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week.
QUICK CHANGE
Substitute an equal amount of r ed wine vinegar or white
wine vinegar for the sher ry vinegar .
Use half fr esh lemon juice and half vinegar for the vinegar .
Add 1 tsp ﬁnely minced shallot with the vinegar and
mustar d.
Substitute walnut, hazelnut, or grapeseed oil for all or part
of the olive oil.
Crumble in some blue or feta cheese af ter you’ve whisk ed in
the oil. 
DOUBLE-MUSTARD VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
A good mustard dressing is a must in every cook’s
repertoire. This one is nicely versatile, good on anything
from a salad of bitter greens with blue cheese and bacon to
grilled rib-eye steak or roasted potatoes. I like to use two
kinds of mustard: whole-grain Dijon mustard adds an
appealing texture and mellow note (mellow for mustard,
that is), and smooth Dijon brings in more sinus-clearing
heat and tang.
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
2 tsp whole-grain Dijon mustar d (moutar de à l’ancienne )
1/2 tsp Dijon mustar d
1/2 tsp honey
3 drops hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar , both mustards,
honey , hot-pepper sauce, 1/4 tsp salt, and 1/8 tsp pepper .
Gradually whisk in the oil, a little at a time, until the sauce
is creamy and blended. T aste and adjust the ﬂavor balance
and seasoning. Whisk again to blend just before using.STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week.
QUICK CHANGE  Use walnut oil instead of olive oil. 
CAESAR-STYLE VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This is my family’s “house” dressing. In fact, I’d say that 75
percent of the salads we eat at home are dressed in some
version of this lemon-P armigiano vinaigrette. Y es,
anchovies are part of the mix, but they create more of a
savory background than a ﬁshy note (for a stronger
anchovy ﬂavor , try the Creamy Anchovy-Caper V inaigrette).
Unlike a classic Caesar dressing, this recipe does not call
for raw egg yolk.
I like this dressing to be fairly creamy , so I make it in a food
processor . But you can easily make it with a bowl and a
whisk as well, or with a mortar and pestle. If you do, your
ﬁnal texture may be slightly more nubby than creamy .
1 tbsp plus 1 tsp ﬁnely grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
2 tbsp fr esh lemon juice
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1 tsp Dijon mustar d
2 to 3 olive oil-pack ed anchovy ﬁllets
1 to 2 cloves garlic
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oilIn a food processor , combine the cheese, lemon juice,
lemon zest, mustard, anchovies, garlic, 1/2 tsp salt, and 1/8
tsp pepper and pulse until well blended. W ith the motor
running, slowly pour in the oil and process until the
vinaigrette is creamy and blended, stopping to scrape down
the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula as needed.
Taste and adjust the ﬂavor balance and seasoning. Whisk
again to blend just before using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tsp W orcestershir e sauce befor e you
add the oil and 1 tbsp thinly sliced fr esh basil just befor e
serving. 
MELLOW GARLIC-BASIL VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
I have a love-hate relationship with garlic: I love it when
it’s cooked and hate it when it’s raw . I’ve solved the
problem here by poaching the cloves in oil to capture their
ﬂavor without their raw harshness. Y ou can save the tender
poached cloves to spread onto bruschetta, blend into a
soup, or whiz into homemade mayonnaise .
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
3 small cloves garlic, lightly smashed
14 lar ge fresh basil leaves
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1/2 tsp Dijon mustar d
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a small saucepan, heat the oil and garlic over medium-
low heat until the cloves are just barely sizzling but not
browning, 4 to 6 minutes. Continue to poach at a low
simmer for 10 minutes; do not allow the garlic to brown.
Remove the pan from the heat and add 10 of the basil
leaves. Let the basil infuse the oil oﬀ the heat for 20
minutes, then remove the garlic and basil leaves, gentlysqueezing the oil from the leaves back into the pan. Discard
the basil but save the garlic for another use.
In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar , lemon zest,
mustard, 1/4 tsp salt, and 1/8 tsp pepper . Gradually whisk in
the infused oil, a little at a time, until the dressing is
creamy and blended. Stack the remaining 4 basil leaves,
roll up the stack lengthwise into a tight cylinder , and slice
crosswise to make thin shreds (this cut is called a
chiﬀonade). Stir the sliced basil into the dressing. T aste
and adjust the ﬂavor balance and seasoning. Whisk again to
blend just before using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The basil will dark en but the ﬂavor will be ﬁne.
QUICK CHANGE  Use balsamic vinegar instead of white
wine vinegar and orange zest instead of lemon zest. 
SPICY GINGER-LIME-GARLIC VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
The key to this dressing is to balance the tension between
the sweet, salty , sour , and hot ﬂavors. Once the dressing is
made, let it sit for about 30 minutes, then taste and tinker a
bit to dial in the right balance just before serving. Even
though the ﬂavors are zingy , this is still a delicate
vinaigrette that is best served with delicate partners, such
as grilled tofu, shrimp, steamed asparagus, or even chunks
of honeydew .
2 tbsp plus 2 tsp fr esh lime juice
1 tsp white wine vinegar
1 tsp peeled and minced fr esh ginger
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lime zest  1/2 tsp minced
garlic
1/4 tsp Dijon mustar d
1/8 tsp granulated sugar
Kosher salt
6 to 10 dr ops hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
1/4 cup/60 ml grapeseed, canola, or other neutral vegetable
oil
In a small bowl, whisk together the lime juice, lime zest,
vinegar , ginger , garlic, mustard, sugar , 1/4 tsp salt, and 6drops hot-pepper sauce. Gradually whisk in the oil, a little
at a time, until the sauce is creamy and blended. Let the
dressing sit for 30 minutes to allow the ﬂavors to blend,
then taste and adjust the ﬂavor balance and seasoning.
Whisk again to blend just before using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week.
QUICK CHANGE
Add 1 tsp soy sauce with the lime juice.
Add 1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh cilantr o after adding the oil. 
TOMATO-GINGER VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This slightly sweet vinaigrette can be used to dress up
much more than just salad. Spoon it over grilled white-
ﬂeshed ﬁsh, such as halibut, for a main course or over
roasted red bell peppers for an antipasto . The tomato ﬂavor
in the vinaigrette comes from two sources, the sweet sun-
dried tomato and the deeper tomato paste. The cider
vinegar contributes a bright, acidic backbone.
2 tbsp cider vinegar
1 tbsp fr esh orange juice
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated orange zest
1 tbsp minced oil-pack ed (or other sof t) sun-dried tomato
1 tsp peeled and minced fr esh ginger
1/2 tsp Dijon mustar d
1/2 tsp tomato paste
1/2 tsp granulated sugar
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
Few dr ops hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar , orange juice,
orange zest, sun-dried tomato, ginger , mustard, tomato
paste, sugar , 1/2 tsp salt, 1/8 tsp pepper , and the hot-peppersauce. Gradually whisk in the oil, a little at a time, until the
sauce is creamy and blended. T aste and adjust the ﬂavor
balance and seasoning. Whisk again to blend just before
using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 Calabrian chile in oil, ﬁnely minced,
and 1 tbsp ﬁnely diced fr esh tomato af ter adding the oil. 
RASPBERRY-THYME VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
I started cooking in the late 1980s, around the time The
Silver P alate  cookbook was ﬁrst published. I think of that
era as The Age of the R aspberry V inaigrette. The
concoction was so overused that I couldn’t go near the stuﬀ
for years. But a well-made raspberry vinaigrette is a
beautiful thing, full of summery perfume and balanced fruit
ﬂavor , and I’m ready to embrace it again. I don’t make mine
with raspberry vinegar . I use real raspberries, either fresh
or frozen, and I add fresh thyme to balance out the
sweetness of the fruit.
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tsp balsamic vinegar
1/2 tsp chopped fr esh thyme
1/2 tsp Dijon mustar d
1/4 tsp granulated sugar
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
6 to 8 fr esh or fr ozen and thawed raspber ries
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
In a small bowl, whisk together both vinegars, the thyme,
mustard, sugar , 1/4 tsp salt, and 1/8 tsp pepper . Add the
raspberries and crush coarsely with a wooden spoon or thewhisk. Gradually whisk in the oil, a little at a time, until the
sauce is creamy and blended. T aste and adjust the ﬂavor
balance and seasoning, adding more sugar if needed. If
time permits, let the vinaigrette sit at room temperature for
up to 30 minutes before using so the berries release their
juices. Whisk again to blend just before using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days.
QUICK CHANGE
Use ripe blackber ries instead of raspber ries, adding mor e
sugar if the ber ries ar e tart.
Add 1 tsp chopped fr esh tar ragon af ter adding the oil.
Use fr esh lime juice instead of white wine vinegar . 
FRESH ORANGE–SMOKED PAPRIKA
VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
I’m addicted to this ﬂavor combination. It tastes like the
exotic vacation that I never quite manage to take! Once you
start cooking with smoked paprika, you’ll ﬁnd a million
uses for it (see the box below), so don’t hesitate to invest in
a small can. It won’t go to waste.
3 tbsp fr esh orange juice
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated orange zest  2 tbsp sher ry
vinegar
1 tsp Spanish sweet smok ed paprik a (see ingr edient note)
1/2 tsp granulated sugar
2 drops hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
Kosher salt
1/2 cup/120 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
In a small bowl, whisk together the orange juice, orange
zest, vinegar , paprika, sugar , hot-pepper sauce, and 1/4 tsp
salt until the sugar and salt are dissolved. Gradually whisk
in the oil, a little at a time, until the dressing is creamy and
blended. T aste and adjust the ﬂavor balance and seasoning.
Whisk again to blend just before using.INGREDIENT NOTE:  Spanish smoked paprika, also
known as pimentón de la V era, comes in three types, sweet
(dulce), medium-hot (agridulce) and hot (picante). Look for
it in stores that specialize in Spanish foods or carry a wide
selection of gourmet foods or online.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 2 tbsp ﬁnely diced r oasted r ed bell
pepper af ter adding the oil.
TEN DELICIOUS THINGS TO DO WITH
SPANISH SMOKED PAPRIKA
1. Make a marinade for grilled shrimp with smoked
paprika, ﬁnely grated lemon zest, minced garlic, and
olive oil.
2. Add a few teaspoons to your favorite gazpacho recipe.
3. Mix into hummus.
4. Sprinkle on deviled eggs.
5. Make a steak rub with kosher salt, cracked black
pepper , smoked paprika, ground cumin, and ground
fennel.
6. Sprinkle onto chunks of juicy mango .
7. Add to a rice pilaf and serve with grilled sausages.8. Gently sauté sliced red bell peppers until soft and
compotelike, then season with smoked paprika and a
few drops of sherry vinegar .
9. Use to season strips of chicken breast, then sauté for
fajitas or burritos.
10. Sprinkle on fried potatoes and onions and serve with  
lemon wedges. 
TANGERINE–BROWN BUTTER
VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 3/4 CUP/180 ML
Adding butter to vinaigrette might seem strange, but once
you taste it, you’ll wonder why you haven’t done it before.
The nutty , rich brown butter gives the dressing some extra
ﬂavor and richness, and the mild acidity of the tangerines
is the perfect foil. This sauce is beautiful on delicate ﬁsh
such as albacore tuna and richer ﬁsh such as salmon , on
steamed broccoli, or on roasted rings of butternut squash.
2 tangerines
2 tbsp sher ry vinegar
1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped shallot
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter
1/2 tsp Dijon mustar d
1 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt
1 tbsp thinly sliced fr esh chives
Using a rasp-type grater , ﬁnely grate 1 tsp lightly packed
zest from the tangerines and reserve. Squeeze the juice
from the tangerines into a small saucepan, taking care not
to let any seeds fall into the pan. Y ou should have about 1/2
cup/ 120 ml. Add the zest, vinegar , and shallot; bring to asimmer over medium heat; and cook, stirring often, until
reduced by about half (to 1/4 cup/60 ml), about 4 minutes.
Remove from the heat and reserve.
In another small saucepan, melt the butter over medium
heat. Continue cooking the butter , swirling the pan every
few seconds, until all of the water has sizzled oﬀ , the milk
solids at the bottom of the pan have turned deep gold, and
the butter smells nutty and fragrant, about 3 minutes.
Immediately pour the butter into a small heatproof bowl so
it stops cooking; keep warm.
Whisk the mustard into the reduced tangerine mixture in
the saucepan. Then whisk in the brown butter (including
the milk solids) and the olive oil. Season with a little salt,
then taste and adjust the ﬂavor balance and seasoning. Stir
in the chives. Whisk again to blend just before using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. The butter will solidif y when cold, so tak e the
vinaigr ette out of the fridge 30 minutes befor e using it, or
reheat it brieﬂy in a micr owave.
QUICK CHANGE
Add a few dr ops of hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha.
Add 1/4 tsp sweet Spanish smok ed paprik a to the r educed
juice mixtur e. 
TOASTED-ALMOND VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/3 CUP/75 ML
I ﬁrst tasted a dressing like this at Clyde Common, one of
my favorite restaurants in P ortland, Oregon, and I’ve been
tinkering with my own version ever since. Because I like
the almonds very ﬁnely chopped, I use a food processor , but
you could chop them by hand with a sharp chef ’s knife.
(Some confusion exists over what are sliced almonds and
what are slivered almonds, so here’s how it goes: sliced are
ﬂat, waferlike slices and slivered are the tiny french-fry
shapes.) One of my favorite ways to use this vinaigrette is
to steam some green beans, line them up neatly on a plate,
and pour a ribbon of the vinaigrette down the middle. It’s a
beautiful ﬁrst course for a summer supper .
2 tbsp sliced almonds
2 tbsp fr esh lime juice
1/4 tsp Dijon mustar d
1/4 tsp granulated sugar
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/4 cup/60 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil or grapeseed oil  1 tsp
minced shallot
Heat the oven to 350°F/180°C/gas 4.Spread the almonds on a baking sheet or pie pan and toast
in the oven until lightly golden and fragrant, 3 to 4
minutes. Transfer to a plate to cool completely . Transfer the
almonds to a food processor and pulse until very ﬁnely
ground. Do not pulse until they become a paste, however .
Or, chop the almonds by hand, if you like, but they must be
very ﬁnely minced.
In a small bowl, whisk together the lime juice, mustard,
sugar , and 1/4 tsp salt. Gradually whisk in the oil, a little at
a time, until the sauce is creamy and blended. Whisk in the
almonds and shallot. T aste and adjust the ﬂavor balance
and seasoning. Let the dressing sit at room temperature for
at least 15 minutes to allow the ﬂavors to blend. Whisk
again to blend just before using.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Use hazelnuts instead of almonds and add
1/2 tsp chopped fr esh tar ragon with the nuts and shallot. 
CREAMY ANCHOVY-CAPER VINAIGRETTE
MAKES 1/2 CUP/120 ML
The ﬂavor of this dressing is intense, but despite the
number of anchovies, it’s not ﬁshy , I promise. The net eﬀect
of the anchovies is a deep savoriness, topped with some
zing from the capers. I use a ﬁnishing touch of cream to
blend all of the ﬂavors together and give the dressing body .
Be sure to use high-quality anchovies packed in olive oil
(see ingredient note). Making the dressing in a food
processor will ensure the anchovies and capers are fully
incorporated. A mortar and pestle will work too, with a bit
more eﬀort on your part. I love this vinaigrette over boiled
new potatoes or as a dip for steamed artichokes or crusty
bread.
10 olive oil–pack ed anchovy ﬁllets, drained
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tbsp drained capers
1 tbsp chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
1 small clove garlic
3 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
2 tbsp heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepperIn a food processor , combine the anchovies, vinegar ,
capers, parsley , and garlic and whiz until puréed, stopping
to scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula
as needed. W ith the motor running, slowly add the oil and
then the cream and process until well blended and slightly
thickened, about 20 seconds. The dressing won’t be
completely smooth. Season with pepper . You probably
won’t need to add any salt because of the anchovies and
capers, but taste the dressing and add some if you do;
adjust the other ﬂavors. Whisk again to blend just before
using.
INGREDIENT NOTE:  It pays to buy good-quality olive oil–
packed anchovy ﬁllets. When I’m in the mood to splurge, I
buy Spanish Ortiz brand ﬁllets, which are always sweet and
meaty . Roland, another Spanish brand, is less expensive but
reliable. Scalia, from Sicily , is somewhere in the middle in
both quality and price. Some cooks prefer salt-packed
whole anchovies for their ﬁrmer texture and full ﬂavor . I
agree that they’re delicious when well prepared, but they
take work to get that way (soaking, ﬁlleting), so I usually
opt for oil-packed ﬁllets.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
days.
QUICK CHANGE
Use fr esh lemon juice instead of white wine vinegar .
Use walnut oil instead of olive oil.
Add 1/2 tsp ﬁnely minced Calabrian chile in oil along with the
capers. 
WARM MAPLE-BACON VINAIGRETTE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This rich and somewhat indulgent sauce calls for bacon fat,
in addition to olive oil. That combination keeps the
vinaigrette from seeming too greasy , especially once it
cools a bit. F eel free to shift the balance toward even more
olive oil, if you like.
The key to using a warm vinaigrette is to pair it with a
sturdy partner . If it’s a green salad, use frisée, escarole,
radicchio, baby kale, or other hearty green that will wilt
slightly from the heat but not turn into a slimy mess, which
a tender lettuce, such as Bibb, would do . I also like warm
vinaigrettes like this one on cooked lentils, roasted root
vegetables, and especially on potatoes .
4 slices bacon, cut cr osswise into 1/2-in/12-mm pieces  2 tbsp
extra-virgin olive oil, plus 1 tbsp for ﬁnishing (optional)
2 tbsp ﬁnely minced shallot
1/2 cup/120 ml sher ry vinegar
1/4 cup/60 ml pur e maple syrup, pr eferably grade B
2 tbsp Dijon mustar d
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
Pinch of cayenne pepper, or dash of hot-pepper sauce such
as SrirachaIn a frying pan, combine the bacon and the 2 tbsp olive oil
over medium heat and cook, turning the bacon occasionally ,
until it is browned and crisp and has rendered most of its
fat, 6 to 8 minutes. Transfer the bacon to a paper towel–
lined plate. P our oﬀ all but 1 tsp of the fat from the pan into
a small bowl and set the bowl aside.
Return the pan to medium heat, add the shallot, and cook,
stirring constantly , until soft and fragrant, about 1 minute.
Increase the heat to medium-high, add the vinegar (stand
back, the fumes are pungent!), and stir with a wooden
spoon to scrape up all the brown bits from the pan bottom.
Let the vinegar reduce by about half , about 3 minutes. Add
the maple syrup and mustard and cook, stirring, until well
blended and heated through, another 30 seconds or so .
(You can prepare the dressing up to this point up to 4 hours
before serving. Just before serving, reheat gently .) Whisk
about 2 tbsp of the oil-bacon fat mixture, or 1 tbsp of the
oil-bacon fat mixture and the remainig 1 tbsp olive oil, into
the warm vinegar mixture, then taste. The ﬂavor should be
quite sharp, but if it’s too sharp, whisk in more oil. Season
generously with salt, black pepper , and cayenne, then taste
and adjust the seasoning. Add the reserved bacon and
dress your salad right away .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. If you ar e making the vinaigr ette in advance, stor e the
bacon pieces and vinaigr ette separately and add the bacon
just befor e serving. Gently r eheat until war m.
QUICK CHANGE  Omit the maple syrup and use half
balsamic and half sher ry vinegar .APPLE and FENNEL SALAD with CANDIED
WALNUTS and DOUBLE-MUSTARD
VINAIGRETTE
SERVES 6
Waldorf salad was my inspiration for this crunchy , sweet-
tart salad. I’ve always liked the apple-celeryraisin W aldorf
combo but never liked the cloak of mayonnaise. Here, the
fruits and vegetables are paired with a tangy mustard
vinaigrette, and I’ve swapped out the celery in favor of
fennel.
This salad would also be lovely dressed with Classic Sherry
Vinaigrette  or Mellow Garlic-Basil V inaigrette . The candied
walnut recipe makes more than you need for this salad, but
once you taste them, you’ll understand why I’ve included
extras for munching.
CANDIED W ALNUTS
1 egg white
1 tbsp water
1/4 cup/50 g granulated sugar
1 tbsp lightly pack ed light or dark br own sugar
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1/4 tsp gr ound cinnamon
1/4 tsp gr ound coriander
1/4 tsp chipotle chile powder or r ed pepper ﬂak es 2
cups/250g walnut halves
SALAD
1 fennel bulb
1/2 cup/120 ml Double-Mustar d Vinaigr ette1 lb/455 g crisp apples such as Braebur n, Pink Lady, or
Honeycrisp (about 2 medium), halved, cor ed, and sliced 1/8
in/3mm thick  1/4 cup/40 g raisins
TO MAKE THE CANDIED W ALNUTS , heat the oven to
325°F/165°C/gas 3. Line a large rimmed baking sheet with
parchment paper or aluminum foil.
In a bowl, whisk together the egg white and water until
foamy . Whisk in both sugars, the salt, cinnamon, coriander ,
and chipotle chile powder . Add the walnuts and toss to coat
evenly . Spread the nuts in a single layer on the prepared
baking sheet, place in the oven, and toast the nuts for 15
minutes. Stir the nuts and continue to toast until fragrant
and dry looking, 10 to 15 minutes more. Remove the nuts
from the oven, let them cool until they can be handled, and
then break up any clumps with your ﬁngers and let cool
completely . Coarsely chop enough nuts to measure 1
cup/125 g and set aside for the salad. Store the remainder
in an airtight container at room temperature for snacking
or other use.
TO MAKE THE SALAD , cut oﬀ the stalks and fronds from
the fennel bulb so it doesn’t look like a bagpipe anymore.
Trim away the hard part at the base. If the outer layer of
the bulb looks tough or ﬁbrous, peel away the surface with
a vegetable peeler . Cut the bulb into small dice, transfer to
a bowl, drizzle with about 2 tbsp of the vinaigrette, and
toss until thoroughly coated. Put the apples in another
bowl, drizzle with about 3 tbsp of the vinaigrette, and toss
until thoroughly coated. Refrigerate the apple and fennel
separately for at least 30 minutes or up to 1 hour to crisp
them.Arrange the apple slices in a wide mound on a serving
platter or in a large shallow bowl, and top with the fennel
in a smaller mound so that the apples show underneath.
Drizzle more of the vinaigrette over the top. Y ou may not
need all of the vinaigrette. Sprinkle the raisins over the
fennel and then sprinkle the whole salad with the candied
walnuts. Serve immediately .
ORANGE SALAD with FRESH ORANGE–
SMOKED PAPRIKA VINAIGRETTE, ICED
ONIONS, and CILANTRO
SERVES 6
Look for an interesting orange
variety for this salad, such as
Cara Cara (which has a lovely
pink blush) or blood oranges
(which are a deep magenta
inside). If you’re not a cilantro
fan (I’ve heard that there are
some of you out there), basil or
parsley would work ﬁne. Soaking
the onion is a trick I learned at
my one and only restaurant
kitchen job, and a ﬁne trick it is.
It reduces the bite of raw onion
and makes it crunchy and almost
translucent.
This salad is good alongside anything from the grill, but it
goes especially well with grilled steak. It also makes a nicelast course if you don’t want a sweet dessert.
1/8 small r ed onion, sliced paper -thin 3 juicy oranges such as
blood or Cara Cara or other navel
1/2 cup/120 ml F resh Orange–Smok ed Paprik a Vinaigr ette
2 tbsp coarsely chopped fr esh cilantr o, or whole cilantr o
leaves
In a small bowl, combine the onion slices with ice water to
cover for at least 30 minutes or up to 2 hours.
Meanwhile, working with one orange at a time, cut a slice
oﬀ each end to reveal the ﬂesh. Stand the orange on a
sliced ﬂat end on a work surface. Using a sharp knife, slice
away the peel, including all of the white pith, cutting from
the top to the bottom and following the contour of the fruit.
Take your time and work in wide strips. Turn the peeled
orange on its side and cut crosswise into rounds 1/4 in/6
mm thick. Repeat with the remaining two oranges.
Put the vinaigrette in a wide, shallow bowl, add the orange
slices, and toss gently to coat. Arrange the oranges on a
serving plate, overlapping them slightly . Pour any extra
vinaigrette and juices from the bowl into a small pitcher for
serving on the side.
Drain the onion slices and pat thoroughly dry with paper
towels. Scatter the onion over the oranges, then sprinkle
with the cilantro . You can prepare the salad as much as 4
hours ahead and refrigerate it, though don’t add the
cilantro until just before serving. The salad is not at its best
when ice-cold, however , so take it out of the refrigerator at
least 20 minutes before serving.SALMON FILLETS on CREAMY MASHED
POTATOES and TURNIPS with TANGERINE–
BROWN BUTTER VINAIGRETTE
SERVES 6
This is a great dish for late winter
when spring is still just a concept
but you’re already hankering for
something light and fresh.
Halibut ﬁllets work nicely here,
too, but they’re not as colorful as
salmon on the plate. If you’re
preparing this for company , you
can make the mashed potatoes
and the base of the vinaigrette
ahead, and have the ﬁsh ready to
pop into the oven as you start to
clear the dishes from the ﬁrst
course. Just reheat the potatoes,
brown your butter , and assemble your plates.
2 lb/910 g medium Y ukon Gold potatoes, peeled and
quarter ed
1 lb/455 g tur nips, peeled and quarter ed
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche  3 tbsp
unsalted butter, at r oom temperatur e
Six 6-to 8- oz/170-to 225-g skinned wild salmon ﬁllets
1/2 cup Tangerine–Br own Butter V inaigr ette
2 tbsp chopped fr esh chives or ﬂat-leaf parsleyIn a large pot, combine the potatoes and turnips with
generously salted water to cover , and bring to a boil over
high heat. Reduce the heat to maintain a vigorous simmer
and cook, uncovered, until tender when pierced with a fork,
about 20 minutes. Scoop out and reserve about 1 cup/240
ml of the cooking water , and then drain the vegetables in a
colander .
Return the potatoes and turnips to the pot, place over low
heat, and heat, stirring constantly , to dry them out
thoroughly , about 3 minutes. (Y ou’ll see a lot of steam rising
from the vegetables at ﬁrst, but as they dry , you should see
less.) Transfer them to a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle
attachment, add the cream and 2 tbsp of the butter , and
beat on low speed until very smooth. Or , remove the
potatoes and turnips from the pot, put them through a ricer
or a food mill held over the pot to keep warm, and then add
the cream and 2 tbsp of the butter and mix with a wooden
spoon until very smooth.
If the potatoes are a bit stiﬀ , loosen them by incorporating
a few spoonfuls of the reserved cooking liquid. Season
generously with salt and pepper , then return them to the
pot to keep warm if you have used a mixer . (You can make
the potatoes up to 4 hours ahead and gently reheat them in
a microwave or on the stove top with a little milk before
serving.) About 30 minutes before serving time, heat the
oven to 425°F/220°C/gas 7.
Rub a 9-by-13-in/23-by-33-cm baking dish with 1/2 tbsp of
the remaining butter .
Season the salmon ﬁllets generously on both sides with salt
and pepper and arrange in the prepared baking dish in a
single layer (if your ﬁllets are thick on one end, thin on the
other , fold the thin end under to make neat ﬁllets of eventhickness). Dot with the remaining 1/2 tbsp butter and cover
the dish tightly with aluminum foil. Bake until the ﬁsh is
just barely opaque in the center , 10 to 12 minutes (a few
minutes less for very thin ﬁllets).
Put a mound of turnipy potatoes in the center of each
warmed dinner plate and arrange a ﬁllet on top or next to
them. Spoon an equal amount of the vinaigrette over each
ﬁllet so that it drizzles down onto the potatoes, too .
Sprinkle each plate with chives. Serve right away .
CEASAR-STYLE HEARTS OF ROMAINE
SALAD with GRILLED PARMIGIANO-
REGGIANO CROUTONS and LEMON
SERVES 4 TO 6
Romaine lettuce is usually available two ways at the
grocery store: the whole head, which can be found loose
with other heads of lettuce, and the heart, which usually
comes three to a bag. I don’t normally buy bagged produce,
but in this case I do . You get the tender , juicy , crunchy
leaves of the romaine heart and not the raggedy outer
leaves of a whole head, which I often end up composting
anyway .
Grilling lemon slices is easy and is a delicious way to add a
bright ﬂavor to salads or grilled vegetable platters. Be sure
to grill them until they start to brown and are quite soft
and chewy . If you stop too soon, you end up with steamed
lemon slices.1 lemon, sliced cr osswise 1/8 in/3 mm thick and slices
seeded  2 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt
1/2 cup/55 g ﬁnely grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese  4
tbsp/55g unsalted butter, at r oom temperatur e
1 clove garlic, ﬁnely minced or grated
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest  3 large slices
artisanal white br ead, 1 in/2.5 cm thick
2 romaine lettuce hearts, cor ed and cut cr osswise into strips
1 in/ 2.5 cm wide
1/2 cup Caesar -Style V inaigr ette
1/4 cup/10 g coarsely chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
Prepare a medium ﬁre in a charcoal or gas grill. The ﬁre is
ready when you can comfortably hold your hand, palm-side
down, 2 to 3 in/5 to 7.5 cm above the grill rack for 4
seconds.
Brush the lemon slices with 1 tbsp of the olive oil and
season generously with salt. W rap the slices in a sheet of
heavy-duty aluminum foil, sealing the edges so the oil
doesn’t leak out. Grill until soft and browned, about 15
minutes, ﬂipping the packet once or twice. Transfer the
lemons to a cutting board and chop ﬁnely .
While the lemons are grilling, in a bowl, stir together the
cheese, butter , garlic, lemon zest, and 1/8 tsp salt. Brush
one side of the bread slices with the remaining 1 tbsp olive
oil. Grill, oiled-side up, until nicely browned, about 2
minutes. Flip the bread slices, spread the grilled side with
the butter-cheese mixture, cover the grill, and grill until the
bottom is browned and the cheese is melted and bubbly , 2
to 3 minutes. Transfer to a cutting board. When cool
enough to handle, cut into 1-in/2.5-cm cubes.In a large bowl, toss the romaine with the vinaigrette,
coating evenly . Add the bread cubes, parsley , and chopped
lemons. T oss to combine and serve right away .
SMASHED NEW POTATO SALAD with
WARM MAPLE-BACON VINAIGRETTE and
SCALLIONS
SERVES 4 TO 6
In too many potato salads, the dressing slides around on
the surface of the potatoes and never sinks in, so the
experience is a disconnect between tangy and bland. I
address that problem two diﬀerent ways here: First, I
smash the potatoes a bit to create lots of crevices to catch
the dressing (who says potato salad equals diced potato?).
Second, I use a warm dressing on warm potatoes, so the
two get intimate quite quickly .
11/2 lb/680 g small new potatoes or lar ger waxy potatoes,
unpeeled, cut into 1-in/2.5-cm chunks  2 bay leaves
(optional)
Kosher salt
1/2 cup W arm Maple- Bacon V inaigr ette
Freshly gr ound black pepper
3 green onions (white and light gr een parts only), thinly
sliced cr osswise
In a large pot, combine the potatoes, bay leaves (if using), 2
tbsp salt, and water to cover by 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm andbring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to maintain
a vigorous simmer and cook, uncovered, until the potatoes
are very tender when pierced with a fork, about 20
minutes. Scoop out about 1 cup/ 240 ml of the cooking
water , and then drain the potatoes in a colander .
Return the potatoes to the pot oﬀ the heat and crush the
potatoes lightly with a wooden spoon or potato masher .
Pour about half of the vinaigrette over the potatoes, season
generously with salt and pepper , and toss gently to coat.
Let sit for a couple of minutes so the potatoes can absorb
the dressing, and then pour over the remaining vinaigrette,
and toss again. If the potatoes seem a touch dry , fold in a
few spoonfuls of the cooking water to moisten them and
make everything creamy .
Transfer to a serving bowl, garnish with the green onions,
and serve warm or at room temperature.HERB SAUCES
IF FOR SOME K ARMIC REASON I W AS REINCARNA TED
AS A SAUCE, I HOPE IT WOULD BE A PESTO . Pestos
always smell like summer , fresh and alive. Their fresh herbs
carry an intoxicating fragrance that begins to seduce you
the moment you pick them from your garden or oﬀ the
market shelf and continues as you chop them, make the
sauce, and serve it. And the color , which ranges from
vivacious grass green to deep jade (though they don’t
always stay green), is seductive too . Fragrance and color
signal the ﬂavors to come: bright and complex, perfect
partners for mild starches and quiet vegetables (like green
beans) that can use a personality boost.
Here, I’m grouping four Italian-style pestos with a trio of
other fresh herb sauces inspired by the kitchens of France,
Morocco, and Argentina. Although none of the latter shares
a cultural heritage, they do share the vibrant color and
perfume of fresh herbs. They are also united by an
uncompromising need for pristine, ﬂavorful herbs: fresh,
supple, glorious, potent bunches of basil, cilantro, parsley ,
mint, or whatever you’re using. No matter how good a
recipe is or how superior your olive oil or cheese or pine
nuts are, your herb-based sauce isn’t worth making with a
droopy clutch of herb sprigs trapped inside a plastic pack.
So if the herbs at the store or market don’t look, smell, and
taste exceptional, skip making this kind of sauce and go for
something else.
Herb sauces typically have a lot going on, so I like to match
them with uncomplicated dishes that won’t compete. The
pestos, which are richer than the other herb sauces in thechapter because they contain cheese and/or nuts, are
delicious on just about any pasta or plain starch, such as
rice or potatoes. They are also wonderful spread on pizza,
focaccia, sandwiches, or swirled into vegetable or bean
soups.
The other herb sauces are more aggressive and include
ingredients such as capers, cornichons, spices, and
vinegars. I like these sauces with foods that can talk back a
little, like grilled meat, ﬁsh, or chicken or sassy vegetables
like roasted red peppers or roasted beets. These sauces
also have a looser consistency , so they don’t work as well as
spreads or toppings.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
There are two keys to a good herb sauce: releasing the
ﬂavor of the herbs without bruising or muddying them and
balancing the herbs’ ﬂavors with the other ingredients.
Techniquewise, you’re either chopping herbs by hand or
with a food processor . With both methods, you need to take
care to avoid bruising the herbs, especially tender ones
such as basil and tarragon. Y ou want to slice cleanly
through the leaves until you have the ﬁneness you need.
Don’t enthusiastically chop-chop the way you might cut a
clove of garlic or you’ll end up crushing, rather than
slicing, the tender herbs. Use a very sharp knife (you
sharpen all your knives regularly , right?) or , if using a food
processor , be judicious with your pulsing.
You also need to pay attention to how ﬁnely you want the
herbs chopped and whether you want the ﬁnal texture of
the sauce to be blended and creamy , as with pesto, or looseand bitty , which is the case with the other sauces in this
chapter .
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
As I mentioned, the main problem with fresh herb sauces
comes from herbs that are past their prime or lack ﬂavor .
For slightly limp specimens, soak them in very cold water
for about 20 minutes, then spin them until dry in a salad
spinner . If the ﬂavor is blah, add some fresh ﬂat-leaf
parsley to the mix to perk things up. P arsley is the unsung
hero of the kitchen and is in almost every store. A t a
minimum, it usually has a decent ﬂavor; at its best, it’s
sweet and grassy with just a touch of anise.
If the ﬁnished sauce tastes ﬂat, a pinch of grated lemon
zest and/or a few drops of lemon juice can add
sprightliness. Y ou’ll ﬁnd that my cure for everything in the
kitchen is grated lemon zest. If you’ve overprocessed your
pesto and it resembles the homogenous, murky stuﬀ you
ﬁnd in store-bought jars, chop a few extra herbs by hand
and stir them in to add texture.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
How much you need depends on how you’re using the
sauce, of course, but 3 to 4 tablespoons per person is
average.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
You need a sharp chef ’s knife and/or a food processor . A
mortar and a pestle are fun for emotional reasons, though I
don’t recommend them. A rasp-type grater will make
grating cheese and citrus zest a pleasure. Honestly .
STORAGE
The pestos are at their peak the moment they are made and
up to an hour or so after you make them. If you only know
pesto from a jar , you’ll taste the diﬀerence freshness
makes. The other sauces beneﬁt from at least 30 minutes of
“marrying time,” though it’s okay to serve them
straightaway . To avoid having to do everything at the last
minute, you can measure and chop all of the ingredients
other than the herbs and citrus zest up to several hours
ahead, and then do the ﬁnal chopping or processing when
you assemble the sauce.
All of these sauces will keep in airtight containers in the
refrigerator for up to 3 days. They freeze well, too: put a
practical amount, such as 1/2 cup/120 milliliters (about
right for two servings of angel hair pasta, for instance) into
a small ziplock freezer bag, push out all of the air , zip
closed, and mark with the contents and the date. Put the
small bags in a larger freezer bag or container and freeze
for up to 3 months. Whenever you need a taste of summer ,
just reach in and grab a bag. The sauce will thaw quickly at
room temperature, or , and depending on the recipe, you
can sometimes toss the pesto in frozen. The other sauces
don’t freeze as well, probably because the relatively high
proportion of acid renders the herbs irredeemably ﬂat after
thawing. 
A GREAT BASIC PESTO
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
This is pretty much a regulation pesto, though I include a
few more nuts for richness than some cooks do and some
grated lemon zest for a bright note. Use a fruity extra-
virgin olive oil, but not a powerhouse Tuscan type, which
would be too bitter .
The classic destination for basil pesto is trenette or
linguine, but I like it on angel hair pasta, too . Scoop out
and reserve some of the pasta cooking water before you
drain it, and then add a few spoonfuls to the pan as you
toss the pasta with the pesto . The starchy cooking water
will emulsify the sauce and make it creamy . And pesto has
great potential beyond pasta: on grilled vegetables, in
sandwiches, swirled into soups, or spooned on baked ﬁsh.
3 cups/70 g lightly pack ed fresh basil leaves
1 to 2 cloves garlic
1/4 cup/35 g pine nuts
Kosher salt
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1/2 cup/120 ml fruity e xtra-virgin olive oil
1/2 cup/55 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheeseIn a food processor , combine the basil, garlic, pine nuts, 1
tsp salt, and the lemon zest and pulse a few times to make
a coarse purée. W ith the motor running, slowly pour the oil
through the feed tube. Stop processing as soon as all of the
oil is blended with the other ingredients. If you want a
ﬁner, smoother consistency , continue processing until the
pesto looks good to you.
Add the cheese and pulse for another second or two . Taste
and add more salt, if you like.
Transfer the pesto to a small bowl, press a piece of plastic
wrap directly onto its surface, and refrigerate until you’re
ready to use it.
STORAGE  This sauce is best if served within the hour, but it
can be r efrigerated in an airtight container with plastic wrap
pressed dir ectly onto its surface for up to 3 days. Or, fr eeze
in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to 3 months.
QUICK CHANGE
Use parsley instead of the basil.
Use almonds, walnuts, or pecans, or a mixtur e of nuts,
instead of the pine nuts.
Use a mix of aged pecorino and P armigiano -Reggiano .
Omit the cheese for a leaner, grassier pesto . 
A VERY FRENCH PESTO
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
This pesto includes the traditional ﬁnes  herbes combination
of tarragon, parsley , chives, and dill, which gives it a
decidedly French feel. It may seem like an unusual
addition, but I add butter to this sauce, because it helps to
transfer the delicate herbal ﬂavors to whatever I am
serving it with.
I like to rub this pesto under the skin of a chicken, slip a
lemon half into the bird’s cavity , and then roast the
chicken. It emerges from the oven tasting like P aris. The
pesto also provides a quick and easy way to dress up side
dishes: spoon it over steamed new potatoes, fold a few
spoonfuls into steamed rice, or drizzle it over broiled or
grilled tomato halves.
2 cups/55 g lightly pack ed fresh ﬂat-leaf parsley leaves
1/4 cup/7 g lightly pack ed fresh tar ragon leaves
1/4 cup/7 g lightly pack ed fresh chive lengths (1-in/2.5-cm
pieces)
1/4 cup/7 g lightly pack ed fresh dill fr onds
1/4 cup/35 g pine nuts
Kosher salt
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1/2 cup/120 ml fruity e xtra-virgin olive oil2 tbsp unsalted butter, at r oom temperatur e
1/4 cup/30 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
In a food processor , combine the parsley , tarragon, chives,
dill, pine nuts, 3/4 tsp salt, and the lemon zest and pulse a
few times to make a coarse purée. W ith the motor running,
slowly pour the oil through the feed tube. Stop processing
as soon as all of the oil is blended with the other
ingredients. If you want a ﬁner , smoother consistency ,
continue processing until the pesto looks good to you.
Add the butter and cheese and pulse for another second or
two. Taste and add more salt, if you like. Transfer the pesto
to a small bowl, press a piece of plastic wrap directly onto
its surface, and refrigerate until you’re ready to use it.
STORAGE  This sauce is best if served within the hour, but it
can be r efrigerated in an airtight container with plastic wrap
pressed dir ectly onto its surface for up to 3 days. Or, fr eeze
in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to 3 months.
QUICK CHANGE
Replace 1/4 cup/7 g of the parsley leaves with 1/4 cup/7 g
fresh chervil leaves.
Use almonds or hazelnuts instead of pine nuts.
Omit the cheese for a leaner, grassier pesto . 
SPICY CILANTRO–MARCONA ALMOND
PESTO
MAKES ABOUT 3/4 CUP/180 ML
You can ﬁnd salted, fried Marcona almonds, the ﬂattish
almonds from Spain, in many stores these days, but they’re
not all great quality . Avoid overtoasted Marconas, which
will be fairly dark, almost the color of a brown-paper bag,
and oily , and choose nuts that are lightly tanned and just
faintly glistening with oil.
The Marconas add enough richness and body to this sauce
that I leave out the cheese. The ﬂavor of the almonds
comes through better and the sauce tastes fresher and
greener—an exciting accent to a bean soup  or an omelet.
3 cups/60 g lightly pack ed fresh cilantr o leaves and tender
stems
1 small jalapeño chile, about 1 oz/30 g, stemmed and
seeded
1/4 cup/35 g salted, fried Mar cona almonds or lightly toasted
sliver ed almonds
1 to 2 small cloves garlic
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1/2 cup/120 ml fruity e xtra-virgin olive oilIn a food processor , combine the cilantro, chile, almonds,
garlic to taste, salt, and lemon zest and pulse a few times to
make a coarse purée. W ith the motor running, slowly pour
the oil through the feed tube. Stop processing as soon as all
of the oil is blended with the other ingredients. If you want
a ﬁner , smoother consistency , continue processing until the
pesto looks good to you.
Transfer the pesto to a small bowl, press a piece of plastic
wrap directly onto its surface, and refrigerate until you’re
ready to use it.
STORAGE  This sauce is best if served within the hour, but it
can be r efrigerated in an airtight container with plastic wrap
pressed dir ectly onto its surface for up to 3 days. Or, fr eeze
in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to 3 months.
QUICK CHANGE
Use basil instead of cilantr o, or use a mix of cilantr o and
basil.
Omit the chile.
Pulse in 1/2 cup/55 g grated aged Manchego cheese af ter
adding the oil.
Use toasted pine nuts instead of Mar cona almonds. 
PARSLEY-MINT PESTO WITH WALNUTS
AND FETA
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
This pesto has a slightly husky personality from the bold
walnuts and assertive fresh mint. I like the way walnuts
and feta taste together , but if you’re not sure about the
combination, hold back and use the feta as a garnish for
the sauce.
Walnuts turn rancid easily , so taste them before using them
(preferably taste them right in the store—hooray for bulk
bins!). W alnut oil isn’t cheap, but it is so delicious that
you’ll ﬁnd lots of other uses for it (including drizzling it on
lentils, on potato and leek soup, on green salads, on
steamed green beans). Imported French brands are usually
good, and I also like La T ourangelle, a French company that
makes a good walnut oil stateside, in California.
This sauce suits sturdy pasta shapes such as penne or
orecchiette, but it has great potential for dishes beyond
pasta, too . Try it as a dip for pita that has been brushed
with olive oil and toasted or grilled; as a ﬁnishing sauce for
grilled sardines with chunks of ripe tomato and black
olives; or stirred into orzo, which is then turned into a bed
for grilled lamb chops or kebabs.2 cups/55 g lightly pack ed fresh ﬂat-leaf parsley leaves, or 1
cup/30 g each lightly pack ed parsley and fr esh basil leaves
if parsley tastes too str ong
1 cup/20 g lightly pack ed fresh mint leaves
1/2 cup/55 g chopped walnuts
1 small clove garlic
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
Kosher salt
1/2 cup/120 ml walnut oil
1/4 tsp hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
1/4 cup/30 g crumbled feta cheese (optional)
In a food processor , combine the parsley , mint, walnuts,
garlic, lemon zest, and 3/4 tsp salt and pulse a few times to
make a coarse purée. W ith the motor running, slowly pour
the oil through the feed tube. Stop processing as soon as all
of the oil is blended with the other ingredients. If you want
a ﬁner , smoother consistency , continue processing until the
pesto looks good to you. Add the hot-pepper sauce and
pulse two or three times to mix.
If you want to keep things simple, it’s okay to omit the feta;
the pesto is delicious at this stage. If using the feta, add it
and pulse for another second or two . You want the cheese
to be in little bits, not completely blended. T aste and add
more salt, if you like. Transfer the pesto to a small bowl,
press a piece of plastic wrap directly onto its surface, and
refrigerate until you’re ready to use it.
STORAGE  This sauce is best if served within the hour, but it
can be r efrigerated in an airtight container with plastic wrap
pressed dir ectly onto its surface for up to 3 days. Or, fr eeze
in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to 3 months.
QUICK CHANGEAdd a few fr esh dill sprigs with the other herbs to give the
pesto a Gr eek or T urkish ﬂavor .
Use P armigiano -Reggiano or Manchego cheese instead of
feta.
Use e xtra-virgin olive oil instead of walnut oil. 
SAUCE VIERGE
MAKES ABOUT 1/3 CUPS/315 ML
This herb-based sauce, which you’ll see in many
permutations, is looser and more tangy and briny than a
pesto and doesn’t call for cheese. In France, you’ll see it
called both sauce vierge and sauce verte: vierge (virgin)
because there’s no heat applied to it … hmmm … and verte
(green) because it is green, bien sûr .
Other cuisines have a similar sauce, so this version is just
my mash-up that incorporates a bit of everything. The idea
is to go for zing. If you enjoy using a knife (and I hope you
do—it’s meditative!), you’ll love this sauce because you
chop everything by hand for the best texture.
1/3 cup/14 g ﬁnely chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
1/3 cup/14 g ﬁnely chopped fr esh basil
1/4 cup/30 g ﬁnely chopped pitted buttery gr een olives such
as Cerignola or Castelvetrano
2 tbsp ﬁnely chopped cor nichon
1 tbsp minced shallot or onion
1 tbsp drained capers, coarsely chopped
2 tsp minced fr esh hot chile such as jalapeño
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
6 olive oil–pack ed anchovy ﬁllets , drained and minced
1 small clove garlic, minced3/4 cup/180 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 tbsp fr esh lemon juice, or mor e if needed
1 tbsp fr esh lime juice, or mor e if needed
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a bowl, toss together the parsley , basil, olives, cornichon,
shallot, capers, chile, lemon zest, anchovies, and garlic. Stir
in the olive oil, and then stir in the lemon and lime juices.
Taste and add enough salt to make the sauce highly savory
(the amount added will depend on the saltiness of your
other ingredients) and season with several grinds of
pepper . Let the sauce rest at room temperature for 30
minutes to allow the ﬂavors to develop, then taste and
adjust the seasoning again with salt, pepper , and the citrus
juices if needed. Refrigerate until you’re ready to use it.
STORAGE  This sauce is best if served within the hour, but it
can be r efrigerated in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
This sauce doesn’t fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE
Fold in 1/2 cup/85 g peeled, seeded, and ﬁnely diced tomato .
Add some fr esh mint and/or tar ragon with the other herbs.
Add some ﬁnely chopped har d-cook ed egg just befor e
serving.
Swap out the fr esh chile for a pickled peper oncino . 
FRAGRANT CHARMOULA
MAKES 1 CUP/240 ML
This aromatic fresh herb sauce has roots in North A frican
cooking, but I’ve added some sweetness and smoke with a
little honey and smoked paprika—nontraditional but
delicious additions. I have also used Aleppo chile, which
adds moderate heat and a pleasant fruitiness.
2 to 3 cloves garlic
1 tbsp Spanish sweet smok ed paprik a or Hungarian sweet
paprik a
11/2 tsp gr ound cumin
Kosher salt
1/4 tsp coarsely gr ound Aleppo chile (see ingr edient note), or
a few dashes of hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
2 cups/55 g lightly pack ed fresh ﬂat-leaf parsley leaves
2 cups/40 g lightly pack ed fresh cilantr o leaves
1/2 cup/120 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
1/3 cup/75 ml fr esh lemon juice
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1 tbsp honey
In a food processor , combine the garlic to taste, paprika,
cumin, 1 tsp salt, and Aleppo chile and pulse to mince the
seasonings. Add the parsley and cilantro and pulse untilroughly chopped. Do not purée the ingredients. Add the
olive oil, lemon juice, lemon zest, and honey and pulse to
blend. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt if needed.
Let the sauce sit for about 15 minutes so the ﬂavors can
marry .
INGREDIENT NOTE:  The Aleppo chile is a fruity ,
fragrant, moderately hot pepper that originated in Syria
and is now grown in Syria and Turkey . It is dried and sold
coarsely ground. I like this chile because its heat level
doesn’t overpower its other ﬂavors.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. This sauce doesn’t fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE
Include a few fr esh mint leaves in the mix.
Add 1 tsp sher ry vinegar along with the lemon juice.
Use fr esh orange juice and zest instead of lemon.
Add 2 tsp minced pr eserved lemon af ter adding the oil.
CHIMICHURRI, IN SPIRIT
MAKES 1 CUP/240 ML
Traditional salsa chimichurri  comes from Argentina. The
base is parsley , and oregano or mint is added to amp up the
herbal ﬂavors. Instead of using nuts or cheese for richness,
as with a pesto, chimichurri  usually has some husky-hot
spice notes from cumin, hot-pepper sauce, or red pepper
ﬂakes, and a ton of tanginess from red wine vinegar . It’s afairly assertive sauce, so I like
serving it with meat or grilled
chicken. It’s a classic partner for
grilled steak, but it’s delightful on
a grilled hamburger , too.
1 cup/30 g lightly pack ed fresh ﬂat-leaf parsley leaves
1 cup/20 g lightly pack ed fresh cilantr o leaves and tender
stems
1-in/2.5-cm chunk of shallot ( 3/4 oz/20 g)
1/4 cup/60 ml sher ry vinegar, or mor e if needed
2 small cloves garlic
1/2 tsp dried or egano
1/2 tsp cumin seeds, lightly toasted in a dry skillet until
fragrant, or 1/4 tsp gr ound cumin
Kosher salt
1/2 cup/120 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
In a food processor , combine the parsley , cilantro, shallot,
vinegar , garlic, oregano, cumin, and 1 tsp salt and pulse a
few times to make a coarse purée. W ith the motor running,
slowly pour the oil through the feed tube. Stop processing
as soon as all of the oil is blended with the other
ingredients. T aste and adjust with salt, if needed, and with
vinegar to bring the sauce up to the edge of pungency . If
time permits, let the ﬂavors marry for at least 30 minutes
at room temperature before serving.STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE
Omit the cilantr o and use all parsley leaves.
Add 1 small jalapeño chile, stemmed and seeded, with the
herbs.
Stir in ﬁnely diced r ed bell pepper at the end.
CRESPELLE with PESTO, RICOTTA, and
ARUGULA SALAD
SERVES 8 AS A FIRST COURSE OR 4 AS A MAIN
COURSE
A tender crepe spread with fragrant pesto and milky
ricotta, topped with a tangle of spicy arugula salad, and
rolled up is a beautiful way to start oﬀ a summer dinner
party . And if you serve each guest two crepes (called
crespelle  in Italian), you have a light main course. Any
fresh salad green will do as long as it’s supple enough to be
rolled up inside the crepe.
You can make the crepes up to 4 hours ahead, stack them
on a plate, cover with plastic wrap, and keep at room
temperature. Or , you can make the crepes a day ahead,
stack and wrap them on the plate, and refrigerate
overnight. Reheat the crepes in a 350°F/180°C/gas 4 oven
for 10 minutes or for a few seconds in the microwave on
medium power before ﬁlling.CREPES
3/4 cup/180 ml whole milk, plus mor e if needed
2 large eggs
1/4 tsp k osher salt
3/4 cup/90 g all-purpose ﬂour
21/2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted, plus mor e for the pan
1 bunch arugula (about 5 oz/140 g), thick stems trimmed
Extra- virgin olive oil and fr esh lemon juice for dr essing salad
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 cup/240 ml pesto of choice
1/2 cup/115 g fr esh whole-milk ricotta cheese
TO MAKE THE CREPES , in a blender , combine the milk,
eggs, and salt and whiz for a few seconds to blend
everything together . Add the ﬂour and whiz until very
smooth, about 20 seconds. P our in the butter and whiz until
combined, about 10 seconds more.
Transfer the batter to a large glass measuring cup or a
bowl with a spout (or a bowl into which you can easily dip a
1/4 -cup/60-ml measuring cup or ladle). Let the batter rest
for at least 30 minutes, or cover and refrigerate for up to
24 hours. When you are ready to make the crepes, test its
consistency: the batter should be as thick as heavy cream,
not as thick as pancake batter . If it is too thick, whisk in
more milk.
Heat a crepe pan, nonstick frying pan, or well-seasoned
frying pan with an 8-in/20-cm base over medium-high heat
until a drop of water ﬂicked onto the surface sizzles on
contact. Using a folded paper towel, spread about 1/2 tsp
butter around the interior of the pan. The butter should
sizzle on contact, but you don’t want the pan so hot that the
butter burns.Pour about 1/4 cup/60 ml of the batter into the center of the
pan. As you pour , lift the pan from the heat and tilt and turn
it in all directions so the batter spreads evenly across the
bottom of the pan in a thin circle. If the crepe has any holes
in it, quickly add a few drops of batter to ﬁll them in. Or , if
you have too much batter and the crepe looks too thick,
immediately pour the excess back into the measuring cup
or bowl. Y ou can always trim oﬀ the “tail” that’s left behind.
Cook the crepe until the edges begin to dry and lift from
the edge of the pan and the bottom is nicely browned,
about 1 minute. T o check for color , use a table knife, thin
oﬀset spatula, or your ﬁngers to lift up an edge of the crepe
and look underneath. When the ﬁrst side is ready , use the
knife, spatula, or your ﬁngers to lift the crepe and quickly
ﬂip it over . Smooth out any folded edges or pleats, then
cook until the center is ﬁrm and the second side is
browned, about 20 seconds more.
Slide the crepe from the pan onto a large plate or cooling
rack. Repeat with the remaining batter , adjusting the heat
and spreading the pan with more butter as you cook. As
each crepe is ﬁnished, stack it on top of the previous one.
You should end up with 8 crepes. The crepes will soften as
they cool.
In a large bowl, toss the arugula with a little olive oil,
lemon juice, salt, and pepper , dressing the greens lightly .
Spread a generous layer of pesto onto the center of each
crepe, top with a few small dollops of the ricotta, and then
with a little of the arugula. Roll up loosely and place seam-
side down on a plate. Or , roll the crepe with the pesto and
ricotta and dress with a handful of the salad on top. When
all of the crepes are assembled, serve right away .BEAN SOUP with SPICY CILANTRO–
MARCONA ALMOND PESTO
SERVES 4 TO 6
This is my all-purpose bean soup recipe. It’s wonderfully
versatile and loves to be adapted to whatever you have on
hand. I like the sweet earthiness of pinto beans paired with
the bright-ﬂavored cilantro pesto, but white or black beans
would be nice, too, or try one of the many interesting
heirloom varieties.
The cooking time for beans can range dramatically
depending on age and variety , so give yourself plenty of
time and cook them just until you’re happy with their
tenderness. And don’t worry that I call for salt to be added
early in the cooking process. I know that many cooks
believe that salt prevents the beans from softening, but in
fact, it’s acidic ingredients, not salt, that have that eﬀect,
which is why the tomatoes go into the pot near the end of
cooking.
1 lb/455 g dried pinto beans, pick ed over for debris
3 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 small yellow onion, peeled and cut into 1/4 -in/6-mm dice
2 leeks (white and tender gr een parts only), chopped
2 celery stalks, cut into 1/4 -in/6-mm dice
1 large car rot, peeled and cut into 1/4 -in/6-mm dice
2 small cloves garlic, ﬁnely chopped
4 cups/960 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth
2 bay leaves
3 large fresh thyme sprigsKosher salt
1 cup/240 ml water
One 14- oz/400-g can crushed tomatoes
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
1/2 to 3/4 cup/120 to 180 ml Spicy Cilantr o–Mar cona Almond
Pesto
In a large pot, combine the beans with water to cover by at
least 2 in/5 cm. Bring to a boil over high heat, remove from
the heat, cover , and let sit for at least 1 hour . When it’s
time to cook the soup, drain and rinse the beans.
In a large, heavy pot or Dutch oven, heat the oil over
medium-high heat. Add the onion, leeks, celery , and carrot
and cook, stirring occasionally , until the vegetables are
soft, about 10 minutes. Do not allow them to brown.
Add the drained beans, garlic, broth, bay leaves, thyme, 1
tsp salt, and the water and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat
to maintain an active simmer , cover , and cook until the
beans are very tender , 2 to 3 hours, depending on the age
of the beans. Add more water as needed to keep them
nicely covered.
Remove and discard the bay leaves, then add the tomatoes
and continue to simmer uncovered, stirring occasionally ,
for 15 to 20 minutes longer to blend the ﬂavors.
Transfer about half of the soup to a blender and purée until
smooth. (If you have an immersion blender , you can half -
purée the soup in the pot.) Return the purée to the pot and
add water as needed to adjust the consistency of the soup
to your liking. Season with the hot-pepper sauce, then taste
and adjust the seasoning with salt if needed. Heat until
piping hot.Ladle the soup into warmed soup bowls. T op each bowl
with about 2 tbsp of the pesto, and then run the tip of a
paring knife through the pesto to swirl it a bit. Serve right
away .
ROASTED CAULIFLOWER with SAUCE
VIERGE
SERVES 4 TO 6 AS A SIDE DISH
Talk about a transformation. Starting point: pale, crumbly ,
bland raw cauliﬂower (my apologies to any grocery-store
salad bar designers). Process: toss with olive oil and roast
for 20 minutes. End result: golden, moist-chewy , sweet
cauliﬂower that you never dreamed was possible. Roasting
is the best method for this vegetable, and drizzling with a
sprightly green sauce just makes thing better .
2 heads cauliﬂower (1 1/4 lb/570 g each), cor ed and cut into
11/2-in/4-cm ﬂor ets
1/3 cup/75 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 tbsp chopped fr esh thyme or lemon thyme
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/3 to 1/2 cup/75 to 120 ml Sauce V ierge
Heat the oven to 425°F/220°C/gas 7.
Don’t worry if when you cut the cauliﬂower into ﬂorets, you
end up with a few smaller ones. They will create delicious
crispy bits. In a large bowl, toss the cauliﬂower with the
olive oil and thyme and season generously with salt andpepper . Spread the cauliﬂower on one or two large rimmed
baking sheets.
Roast until the ﬂorets are tender , collapsed, and golden
brown on their cut faces and around the edges, at least 20
minutes and possibly longer . The darker the cauliﬂower the
better it will taste (short of burnt, of course).
Pile the cauliﬂower into a warmed serving bowl and drizzle
generously with the sauce. Serve warm or at room
temperature.
COUSCOUS with BRAISED VEGETABLES in
CHARMOULA
SERVES 4 TO 6
On a night when you discover you don’t have much in the
fridge other than odds and ends, this recipe will make you
happy . I like making it with the mix of vegetables given
here, but you can use just about anything you have on
hand. I always keep couscous and canned chickpeas in the
pantry , and the charmoula sauce is also mostly pantry
ingredients, plus, of course, the fresh herbs. If you want to
add some protein, grilled tofu, sausages, or skewers of
chicken-thigh chunks would be lovely .
4 tbsp/60 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
8 oz/225 g Y ukon Gold or r ed waxy potatoes, peeled and cut
into 1-in/2.5-cm chunks
1 small sweet potato, peeled and cut into 1-in/2.5-cm
chunksKosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and cut lengthwise
into strips 1/2 in/12 mm wide
1 Anaheim or other lar ge, mild gr een chile, stemmed,
seeded, and cut into 1/2-in/12-mm dice
8 oz/225 g cauliﬂower ﬂor ets (about 1/2 small cauliﬂower)
2 small tomatoes, cor ed and cut into 1/2-in/12-mm dice
One 14- oz/400-g can chickpeas, rinsed and drained
11/2 cups/360 ml water
3/4 cup/180 ml Fragrant Char moula
1 cup/170 g couscous
Plain yogurt for serving
In a large frying pan, heat 1 tbsp of the olive oil over
medium-high heat. Add the potatoes and sweet potato,
sprinkle with salt and pepper , reduce the heat to medium,
and cook, undisturbed, until well browned on the ﬁrst side,
about 2 minutes (they’ll stick if you try to turn them too
soon). Flip the potatoes to another side and cook again,
undisturbed. Continue to ﬂip and cook undisturbed until
nicely browned on all sides, 8 to 10 minutes longer .
Transfer to a bowl.
Add 2 tbsp of the oil to the pan and return to medium-high
heat. Add the bell pepper and chile. Sprinkle lightly with
salt and pepper and cook, stirring often, until lightly
browned and starting to soften, 3 to 4 minutes.
Return the potatoes and sweet potato to the pan, add the
cauliﬂower , tomatoes, and chickpeas, and sprinkle lightly
with salt and pepper . Stir to combine the vegetables and
then add 1/2 cup/120 ml of the water . Cover , adjust the heat
to maintain a nice simmer , and cook, stirring occasionally ,
until all of the vegetables are tender , 12 to 15 minutes. If a
lot of liquid remains in the pan once the vegetables aretender , uncover the pan, increase the heat to medium-high,
and let the liquid boil oﬀ for a minute, taking care not to
burn the vegetables.
Turn oﬀ the heat and gently fold in the sauce. Season with
salt and pepper and keep warm while you make the
couscous.
In a saucepan, bring the remaining 1 cup/240 ml water to a
boil over high heat. Stir in the couscous and 1/2 tsp salt,
then remove the pan from the heat. Cover and let sit
undisturbed until the couscous has absorbed the water and
is tender , about 5 minutes. Fluﬀ the couscous with a fork,
drizzle it with the remaining 1 tbsp oil, and ﬂuﬀ again.
Pile a mound of couscous in the center of each dinner plate
(or wide, shallow bowl), ladle the vegetables on top, and
serve with a dollop of yogurt.TOMATO SAUCES
TOMA TOES MIGHT POS SIBL Y BE THE MOST PERFECT
INGREDIENT  —beautiful and shapely , with a ﬂavor that’s
both bright and deep, savory and sweet, clean and rich,
subtle and sassy . And most important (especially for this
book), tomatoes make brilliant sauces.
You can emphasize diﬀerent aspects of a tomato’s
character with diﬀerent cooking methods, so that’s how I
have structured the recipes in this chapter . Three kinds of
tomato sauces are here: fresh, canned, and roasted.
For fresh tomato sauce, I cook the tomatoes quickly over
high heat, without a lot of other ingredients, to keep their
vivacious ﬂavor intact. This method depends on good
tomatoes with lots of ﬂavor and acid, so I use cherry
tomatoes, which I feel are reliably tasty and bright.
Canned tomatoes are not an inferior second choice to fresh
tomatoes. On the contrary , canned tomatoes have lots of
virtues, an obvious one being that they are always
available. And they’re already peeled! Most of the tomato
sauces in this chapter are made with canned tomatoes.
Roasting tomatoes concentrates their ﬂavors and
caramelizes their ﬂesh. That translates to sauces with a
deep ﬂavor and lush texture and a big hit of umami. When
tomatoes are roasted, they cook down a lot, which means
that you need a lot of tomatoes to produce a small amount
of sauce, so I only roast tomatoes for sauces at the height
of tomato season when there are plenty to be had at a good
price or in my garden.WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
It’s important to know that the amount of sugar , acid,
moisture, and other ﬂavor compounds is diﬀerent in every
tomato, and that will make a diﬀerence in every tomato
sauce you make. Y ou’ll ﬁnd dramatic variation among fresh
tomato varieties, seasons, and sources. Even canned Italian
tomatoes that carry the San Marzano DOP label, indicating
they’re grown within a designated region in southern Italy ,
can be quite diﬀerent from can to can. Sometimes they’re
fat, red, and meaty , and other times they’re stringy , pale,
and have a hard, white stem end. Although ﬁnding a
canned brand you like and trust can mitigate the mood
swings, it’s most important to learn to deal with these
diﬀerences once you’re in the kitchen.
Another key to tomato sauce, be it fresh, canned, or
roasted, is knowing when to stop cooking it. T wo important
things are happening when you simmer any tomato sauce:
One, the tomato ﬂesh is softening and breaking down so
the sauce is becoming smoother . Two, the water in the
tomatoes is evaporating so the ﬂavors are concentrating,
taking the sauce from where it just tastes like tomato to
where it tastes like essence of tomato, or the beau ideal of
tomato . The only way you’ll know when to stop cooking is
by tasting as you go .
The third challenge with these sauces is ﬁnding a good
balance among sweet, acid, and savory . You’ll notice that all
of my recipes call for a ﬁnal tinkering with lemon juice,
sugar , salt, and sometimes W orcestershire sauce to dial in
the perfect tension among these ﬂavors.WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
The biggest problem you’ll run into with tomato sauces is a
lack of ﬂavor in the tomatoes themselves. Generally , a little
more cooking, whether in the saucepan or in the oven (for
roasted tomatoes), can concentrate whatever ﬂavor you do
have into a delicious sauce. Adjusting the ﬂavor of the
ﬁnished sauce with lemon and/or sugar , as mentioned
previously , is also helpful. But in some cases, you may need
to add a tablespoon or two of tomato paste; having a tube
of imported tomato paste in the refrigerator means you’re
armed for the situation. Sometimes I even add a little
orange juice and orange zest, which brings both lively
acidity and a sweet fruitiness that harmonizes well with the
tomatoes. And ﬁnally , as with many things, a generous glug
of good-quality extra-virgin olive oil can ﬁx a lot of
problems.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
The amount you use depends on how you’re using the
sauce, of course, but you will probably use about 1/2
cup/120 milliliters per person.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
Although the image in the movies is of grandma stirring a
tall pot of red sauce, I like to make these sauces in a
shorter pan with a wide surface area, which encourages
evaporation and speeds up cooking. I use a deep, 12-
inch/30.5-centimeter sauté pan, but a wide Dutch oven,large saucepan, or a rondeau (a wide, shallow pot with
straight 4-inch/10-centimeter sides) would work as well. No
matter what you use, aim for a pan with a heavy base to
avoid hot spots where the sauce might stick and burn. F or
the roasted-tomato sauces, you need a rimmed baking
sheet, a blender or food processor , and a ﬁne-mesh sieve.
STORAGE
Sauces made from fresh tomatoes are best when eaten just
after you have made them. But you can refrigerate the
canned and roasted-tomato sauces for a good week or
freeze them for up to 3 months. I like to make a huge batch
and divvy it up into 3-cup/720-milliliter portions in freezer
bags (that’s a good amount for a meal for my family of
three, with leftovers). 
FLASH-SAUTÉED FRESH CHERRY TOMATO
SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 2 1/2 CUPS/600 ML
I’m a big fan of cherry tomatoes because you can ﬁnd
reliably ﬂavorful ones even in wintertime. I think the best
selection for this sauce is a mix of fruity and sweet orange
Sun Golds (my favorite tomato; I plant about a dozen
bushes every year) and a basic red cherry . You could make
this sauce with chunks of larger tomatoes, too, but only if
they’re brightly acidic, the way even ho-hum cherry
tomatoes tend to be. This sauce is a pleasure simply tossed
with penne and a handful of grated P armigiano-Reggiano .
But it’s also delicious on grilled polenta or grilled ﬁsh. My
favorite destination for this sauce is the angel hair dish on
page 64.
3 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
2 tbsp minced, seeded jalapeño, ser rano, or other fr esh hot
chile or pepper oncino
Kosher salt
5 cups/800 g ripe cher ry tomatoes, stemmed and halved if
large
1 clove garlic, minced
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed3 tbsp chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley, basil, mint, or a
mixtur e
1 tsp unsalted butter
In a large sauté pan, heat the oil over mediumhigh heat.
Add the chile and 1/2 tsp salt and cook, stirring often, until
soft and fragrant, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes and
cook, stirring often, until they begin to burst and release
their juice, 4 to 6 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for
another 30 seconds or so, then stir in the lemon zest and
juice. Remove the pan from the heat, add the parsley and
butter , and swirl the pan to blend them into the sauce.
Taste and balance the seasoning with salt and lemon juice
if needed. Serve right away .
STORAGE  This sauce loses its vibrancy af ter a few hours, so
use it as soon as possible af ter making it.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp drained capers or chopped,
pitted gr een olives with the garlic. 
GOOD AND VERSATILE MARINARA SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 6 CUPS/1.4 L
I love this sauce on its own merits, but I love it doubly
because it’s a great base for lots of other sauces, which is
why I usually make a double or triple batch and freeze the
excess. That way , I can defrost a bag and be more than
halfway to a rich meat sauce, savory mushroom sauce, or
vivacious sauce laced with olives, capers, and anchovies. (I
share these recipes on the following pages.) Plus, I’m well
on my way to assembling a lasagna or other sauce-rich
dish. A freezer loaded with a stack of tightly sealed bags of
this sauce makes me feel equipped to handle anything life
may throw at me.
1/2 cup/120 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
11/2 cups/225 g ﬁnely chopped yellow onions  1/2 cup/85 g
coarsely grated or ﬁnely chopped, peeled car rot 1/4 cup/40 g
coarsely grated or ﬁnely chopped celery  Kosher salt
1 large clove garlic, minced
Two 28- oz/800-g cans crushed tomatoes
1/4 cup/10 g thinly sliced fr esh basil leaves, chopped fr esh
ﬂat-leaf parsley, or a mixtur e 1/4 tsp hot-pepper sauce such
as Sriracha  1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
Pinch of granulated sugar, if neededIn a large, wide, heavy saucepan or large, deep sauté pan,
heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onions, carrot,
celery , and 1/2 tsp salt and cook, stirring occasionally , until
soft, fragrant, and lightly golden, 10 to 15 minutes. Add the
garlic and cook for another 30 seconds or so (don’t let it
brown). Add the tomatoes and herbs and bring the
tomatoes to a simmer . Reduce the heat to maintain a low
simmer and cook uncovered, stirring every once in a while,
until the sauce is reduced, glistening with oil, and
concentrated in ﬂavor . Taste as you go . It should take
between 30 and 40 minutes. Add the hot-pepper sauce,
then taste and adjust the ﬂavor balance, if needed, with
sugar and with more salt and lemon juice.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
3 months.
QUICK CHANGE
Add 1 cup/160 g ﬁnely chopped fennel with the onion,
carrot, and celery .
Stir in 1/4 cup/30 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese and
2 tbsp unsalted butter at the end of cooking. 
BOLD AND SPICY TOMATO SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 7 CUPS/1.6 L
This recipe is inspired by puttanesca sauce, which,
according to many sources, was a dish that Neapolitan
prostitutes in the mid-twentieth century served to their
customers. Is that true or just legend? I have no idea, but I
know it’s not that backstory that would tempt me to make
the sauce. I prefer to emphasize all of its zesty , bold, and
briny elements. Serve the sauce with pasta; spoon some
sauce into a baking dish, nestle cod or halibut ﬁllets in it,
and bake; or grill pita or other ﬂat bread and top it with the
sauce.
You can customize the sauce as you like. I can’t handle
more than a modicum of chile heat, so I’ve been cautious
here. But if you can stand the ﬁre, add more chile than the
recipe calls for . If you like tangy ﬂavors, add more olives,
and for more salt and umami, increase the amount of
anchovies. About those anchovies: Please don’t skip them
unless you’re a vegetarian. They add so much to this—and
any—dish.
2 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
10 olive oil–pack ed anchovy ﬁllets , drained
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely minced Calabrian or other hot
chile in oil6 cups/1.4 L Good and V ersatile Marinara Sauce (facing
page)
11/2 cups/170 g chopped, pitted K alamata olives  1/4 cup/50
g coarsely chopped, drained capers  1/2 cup /20 g coarsely
chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley  1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely
grated lemon zest  Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black
pepper
In a large, wide, heavy saucepan or a Dutch oven, heat the
oil over medium heat. Add the anchovies and chiles and
cook, stirring once or twice, until slightly sizzling, about 30
seconds. Add the marinara sauce, olives, and capers and
cook, stirring often, until heated through and the ﬂavors
have blended, about 10 minutes. Stir in the parsley and
lemon zest. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt and/or
pepper (you probably won’t need either).
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock plastic fr eezer bags
for up to 3 months.
QUICK CHANGE
Use basil instead of parsley .
Add a few chopped leaves of mint and/or or egano with the
parsley .
Add chopped, cook ed guanciale or pancetta with the
marinara sauce.
Use peper oncino instead of, or in addition to, the hot chile in
oil.
Add one or two 6- oz/170-g cans good-quality olive oil–
packed tuna, drained and ﬂak ed, with the marinara sauce. 
VERY MUSHROOMY PORCINI TOMATO
SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 7 CUPS/1.6 L
The term umami  describes the so-called ﬁfth ﬂavor , a deep
meatiness that we all crave whether we eat meat or not
(sweet, sour , salty , and bitter are the other four ﬂavors),
and I’ve developed this sauce to highlight that character .
Tomatoes are naturally rich in umami (due to the presence
of glutamic acid), dried porcini are like little engines of
umami, and W orcestershire sauce is like liquid umami. In
other words, this sauce is savory .
If you want to make it vegetarian, skip the W orcestershire
sauce (most brands contain anchovies). It’s excellent with
lighter , sweeter partners, such as butternut squash–ﬁlled
ravioli, or layered with lasagna noodles and ricotta mixed
with lemon zest and lots of fresh parsley , dill, and chives. It
is also good spooned over creamy polenta made with a
generous measure of P armigiano-Reggiano and Cheddar
(yes, I know , Cheddar isn’t Italian, but it’s so good in
polenta).
11/2 cups/360 ml r ed wine (nothing too oak y or tannic)  1
oz/30 g dried por cini mushr ooms, rinsed if dusty
2 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 lb/455 g white or cr emini mushr ooms, trimmed and ﬁnely
chopped
Kosher salt
About 12 tur ns freshly gr ound black pepper
6 cups/1.4 L Good and V ersatile Marinara Sauce
1 tsp fr esh thyme leaves
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tsp W orcestershir e sauce, plus mor e if needed (omit to
make this vegetarian)
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
Pinch of granulated sugar, if needed
In a small saucepan, combine the wine and porcini and
bring to a simmer over mediumhigh heat. Remove from the
heat and let sit until the mushrooms are soft, at least 30
minutes. Scoop out the mushrooms, squeeze out as much
wine as you can, chop the mushrooms ﬁne, and set aside.
Return the wine to mediumhigh heat and simmer until
reduced to 2 to 3 tbsp, 10 to 15 minutes. Set aside.
In a large, heavy saucepan or Dutch oven, heat the oil and
butter over mediumhigh heat. When the butter melts, add
the fresh mushrooms, 1/2 tsp salt, and the pepper and cook,
stirring often, until the mushroom liquid has been released
and has evaporated and the mushrooms are fragrant and
starting to brown, 12 to 15 minutes.
Add the marinara sauce, the reserved porcini, the reduced
wine, the thyme, lemon juice, and W orcestershire sauce
and stir well. Adjust the heat to maintain a simmer and
cook, stirring occasionally , until the sauce is slightly
reduced and the ﬂavor is deep and savory , 25 to 35
minutes. Season with hot-pepper sauce, then taste andadjust the ﬂavor balance, if needed, with sugar and with
more salt, lemon juice, and W orcestershire sauce.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
3 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use fr esh chanter elle, oyster, maitak e, or
shiitak e mushr ooms instead of the cr emini; if using
shiitak es, reduce the amount to 8 oz/225 g, as they have a
strong ﬂavor . 
VERY MEATY TOMATO SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 8 CUPS/2 L
I envy Italian families who spend Sundays around the table
eating pasta dressed with long-simmered meaty ragu. It’s
not the family part I envy—I like my own (though we’d
more likely have been eating ham sandwiches on white
bread … ), but I long for the deep savoriness of hunks of
meat simmered in tomato sauce. In this recipe, I think I get
to that same savory place, but in less time and with no
Italian heritage required. The key is three types of meat:
pancetta for salty-fattiness, Italian sausage for more pork
and fennel notes, and ground beef for sweetness and
texture. A ﬁnal dose of W orcestershire pulls it together .
4 oz/115 g sliced pancetta, cut into 1-in/2.5-cm pieces
1 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
8 oz/225 g sweet Italian sausage, casings r emoved if using
link sausage
8 oz/225 g gr ound beef
6 cups/1.4 L Good and V ersatile Marinara Sauce
13/4 cups/420 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth 1 fresh r osemary
sprig, 4 in/10 cm long
1 bay leaf
1 tsp W orcestershir e sauce, plus mor e if needed1 tsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
Kosher salt
Freeze the pancetta until mostly solid, then pulse in a food
processor until ground.
In a large, wide, heavy saucepan or a Dutch oven, heat the
oil over mediumhigh heat. Add the ground pancetta and
cook, stirring occasionally , until the fat is rendered and the
pancetta is golden but not browned, 4 to 5 minutes. Add
the sausage and beef and cook, breaking up the meat with
a wooden spoon or spatula, until the pink is gone (don’t let
the meat brown or get crusty), 3 to 4 minutes. If there is a
lot of fat, pour some oﬀ , but leave a nice amount (2 to 3
tbsp), which will make the sauce more ﬂavorful.
Stir in the marinara sauce, broth, rosemary , bay leaf , and
Worcestershire sauce. Cover , reduce the heat to maintain a
simmer , and cook, stirring and scraping the pan fairly
frequently , for about 45 minutes.
Uncover and continue to simmer until the sauce is slightly
reduced, very concentrated, and glistening with oil,
another few minutes. Stir in the sugar and a few drops of
hot-pepper sauce. T aste and adjust the ﬂavor balance, if
needed, with salt, sugar , Worcestershire sauce, and hot-
pepper sauce.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
3 months.
QUICK CHANGE
Add a few r ed pepper ﬂak es with the sausage and beef .Add 2 tbsp each chopped fr esh basil and ﬂat-leaf parsley
when you add the marinara sauce.
Omit the pancetta, use gr ound turk ey and turk ey sausage
instead of gr ound beef and Italian sausage, and incr ease the
olive oil to 3 tbsp. 
LAMB AND FRAGRANT SPICES SAUCE
MAKES 8 CUPS/2 L
The bright acidity of tomato sauce is a perfect foil for the
rich sweetness of lamb. I keep the sweet-tangy balance
ﬁnely tuned with lemon juice, vinegar , and sugar . This
sauce is wonderful on grilled eggplant, penne topped with
chunks of feta, or on top of brown rice.
4 tbsp/60 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
11/2 lb/680 g gr ound lamb
Kosher salt
1/2 yellow onion, very thinly sliced
3 to 4 cloves garlic, ﬁnely chopped
1 tsp Spanish sweet smok ed paprik a
1 tsp gr ound cumin
1/2 tsp gr ound cinnamon
1/2 tsp gr ound allspice
6 cups/1.4 L Good and V ersatile Marinara Sauce
13/4 cups/420 ml homemade turkey br oth or chick en br oth 1
tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tsp balsamic vinegar, plus mor e if needed
1 tsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
1/4 cup/10 g coarsely chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley  1/4
cup/7 g coarsely chopped fr esh mintIn a large, wide, heavy pan, heat 1 tbsp of the oil over
mediumhigh heat. Add the lamb and 1/2 tsp salt, and cook,
breaking up the meat with a spatula, until the pink is gone
(don’t let the meat brown), 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer the
lamb to a ﬁne-mesh sieve to drain oﬀ excess fat.
Return the pan to mediumhigh heat and heat the remaining
3 tbsp oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring often, until
beginning to soften, 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce the heat to
medium and continue cooking, stirring and scraping
frequently , until the onion starts to turn golden, 5 to 7
minutes. Add the garlic, paprika, cumin, cinnamon, and
allspice and cook, stirring, until fragrant, another 30
seconds.
Stir in the marinara sauce, broth, and cooked lamb. Cover ,
reduce the heat to maintain a simmer , and cook, stirring
and scraping the pan fairly frequently , for about 45
minutes. Uncover and simmer until the sauce is slightly
reduced, very concentrated, and glistening with oil,
another few minutes. Stir in the lemon juice, vinegar , sugar ,
and a few drops of hot-pepper sauce. T aste and adjust the
ﬂavor balance, if needed. Stir in the parsley and mint.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock bags for up to 3
months.
QUICK CHANGE
Add 8 oz/225 g mer guez sausage, crumbled, along with the
lamb.
Add 1/2 cup/55 g chopped, pitted black olives with the
marinara sauce.
Add 1 cup/225 g diced r oasted r ed bell pepper with the
marinara sauce. 
RICH ROASTED-TOMATO SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 3 1/2 CUPS/840 ML
It takes a lot of tomatoes to make a moderate amount of
roasted-tomato sauce, so make this sauce during the
summer when tomatoes are at their peak and less costly .
Don’t use picture-perfect tomatoes, however . Save those for
caprese salads, BL Ts, and the like. I ask one of the farmers
at my local market to sell me his seconds (the less-than-
perfect specimens), and he does so at a great price, so
every few weeks in early September I roast a half bushel
for sauce. Then I congratulate myself all winter long as I
use this intensely ﬂavored sauce on polenta and pasta, with
shrimp or crab, or even as the basefor tomato soup.
5 lb/2.3 kg fr esh ripe tomatoes, cor ed and halved
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt
2 tsp coarsely chopped fr esh r osemary, thyme, or a mixtur e
(optional)
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/8 tsp r ed pepper ﬂak es
1 cup/240 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en or vegetable
broth, or canned r educed-sodium chick en or vegetable br oth
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed1/2 tsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed  Hot-pepper
sauce such as Sriracha
Heat the oven to 350°F/180°C/gas 4.
Arrange the tomatoes, cut-side up, on a large rimmed
baking sheet. Don’t use a rimless sheet pan (a cookie
sheet), because the tomatoes will release a lot of juice. A
glass baking dish or metal baking pan works well, too . You
should be able to ﬁt all of the tomatoes in a single layer on
a half sheet pan (13 by 18 in/ 33 by 46 cm). If you need to
use two pans, that’s ﬁne. But if there is too much space
between the tomatoes, their juices will burn, so aim for a
cozy ﬁt. The tomatoes will shrink as they cook.
Drizzle about 1/4 cup/60 ml of the oil over the tomatoes,
then sprinkle on some salt and the herbs (if using). Roast
the tomatoes until collapsed, shrunken, concentrated, and
just beginning to brown on their undersides and around the
edges. The pulp of the tomato should still be very soft and
the skin should be slightly chewy . You don’t want the
consistency to be as leathery as a sun-dried tomato . The
cooking time will vary greatly—crazily , in fact—depending
on the character of the tomatoes, so count on at least 1 1/2
hours but allow up to another hour or more. A fter about 1
hour of cooking, check the amount of juice in the pan. If
there is a lot, carefully pour or spoon it oﬀ into a small
saucepan. Y ou’ll add it back to the sauce later , but
removing it helps the tomatoes roast instead of simmer .
(Don’t worry if you don’t have any juices in the pan;
sometimes that’s the case.) While the tomatoes are
roasting, heat the remaining 2 tbsp oil in a large sauté pan
or medium Dutch oven over medium heat. Add the garlic
and pepper ﬂakes and cook, stirring, until fragrant but notbrowned, about 30 seconds. Remove from the heat and set
aside.
When the tomatoes are done, transfer them and any juice
in the pan to a blender or food processor . Add the mixture
of oil, garlic, and pepper ﬂakes and process until very
smooth.
Return the sauté pan to the stove top over mediumhigh
heat and carefully add the tomato purée. Add the broth and
any reserved tomato juices, stir a few times, and then
simmer until slightly reduced, about 10 minutes. The sauce
can be sort of lavalike, forming big, splattery bubbles, so
watch out, and cover the pan partially if this happens.
Because the sauce will probably have too many seeds and
bits of skin in it to have a good texture, pour it through a
ﬁne-mesh sieve, pushing it through with a rubber spatula
or the back of a spoon. Drizzle a few spoonfuls of water or
broth over the tomato skins and push again to be sure you
get all of the sauce.
Add the lemon juice and sugar and a few drops of hot-
pepper sauce, then taste and adjust the ﬂavor balance, if
needed, with salt, lemon juice, sugar , and hot-pepper sauce.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
3 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 to 1/3 cup/60 to 75 ml cr ème
fraîche or heavy cr eam and 2 tbsp vodk a to the sauce near
the end of cooking.ANGEL HAIR PASTA with FLASH-SAUTÉED
FRESH CHERRY TOMATO SAUCE, TUNA,
and GREEN OLIVES
SERVES 4
Don’t have a clue what to ﬁx for
dinner tonight? This dish is
always a great solution to that
problem. The tomatoes and
parsley are the only fresh
ingredients you need; everything
else is probably in your fridge or
pantry . For a splurge, use
Spanish tuna in olive oil; for a
bargain, try Genova brand, also
in olive oil but half the price.
Kosher salt
1 lb/455 g angel hair pasta
21/2 cups/600 ml Flash-Sautéed F resh Cher ry Tomato Sauce ,
heated  Two 6- oz/170-g cans good-quality tuna pack ed in oil,
drained and ﬂak ed
1/2 cup/55 g pitted gr een olives such as L ucques or
Castelvetrano  1 tbsp rinsed capers
1/4 cup/10 g chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley, or other fr esh
herbs as you lik e
Bring a large pot of generously salted water to a boil over
high heat. Add the pasta, stir , and cook until just shy of aldente (about 1 minute less than the package instructions).
Just before the pasta is ready , scoop out about 1/2 cup/120
ml of the cooking water and set aside. Drain the pasta.
Return the pasta to the pot over medium heat. Add the
tomato sauce and toss to coat evenly . Fold in the tuna,
olives, and capers, and then fold in a few spoonfuls of
reserved pasta water to create a nice saucy consistency .
Divide the pasta among warmed pasta bowls and sprinkle
with the parsley . Serve right away .
EGGS POACHED in BOLD and SPICY
TOMATO SAUCE with GARLICKY TOASTS
and PECORINO
SERVES 4
Americans tend to think of eggs
as breakfast food, but fortunately
other cuisines remind us of their
value on the dinner table. This
simple Italian-inspired dish is
both comforting and exciting—
eggs and toast for comfort, spicy
sauce and assertive cheese for
dramatic ﬂavor . Although I call
for my Bold and Spicy T omato
Sauce here, any of the marinara-
based sauces in this chapter will
work.About 4 cups/960 ml Bold and Spicy Tomato Sauce
4 large eggs
4 large slices artisanal white br ead such as ciabatta or
sourdough
2 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 clove garlic, halved
1/2 cup/55 g grated pecorino r omano or other good-quality
salty aged cheese
Position an oven rack about 6 in/15 cm from the broiler
element and heat the broiler .
In a 10-in/25-cm broiler-safe frying pan, bring the sauce to
a simmer over mediumhigh heat. Cook, stirring frequently ,
until slightly thickened and very hot, about 10 minutes.
Crack one of the eggs into a small bowl. W ith a spoon or
spatula, make a little well in one quadrant of the tomato
sauce and slip the egg into the well. Repeat with the
remaining eggs, spacing them evenly in the pan. Reduce
the heat to low , cover , and cook until the whites of the eggs
are just starting to set but the yolks are still soft, 9 to 12
minutes.
Meanwhile, brush both sides of each bread slice with the
olive oil. Arrange the bread on a rimmed baking sheet in a
single layer . Broil the bread, ﬂipping once, until golden
brown, about 1 minute on each side, depending on your
broiler . Rub the garlic halves on one side of each piece of
toast.
When the eggs are starting to set, sprinkle the sauce and
eggs with the cheese and transfer the pan to the broiler .
Broil until the cheese is lightly browned and the eggs are
set (I like to keep the yolks runny), about 30 seconds. If youwant your eggs cooked through a bit more, keep them
under the broiler for another 30 seconds.
Put a piece of toast in the bottom of each individual wide,
shallow bowl. Spoon an egg and an equal amount of the
sauce over each toast. Serve right away .
CHICKEN AND PEPPERS BRAISED IN VERY
MUSHROOMY PORCINI TOMATO SAUCE
SERVES 4 TO 6
This easy and savory stew was inspired by chicken
cacciatore, that is, “hunter’s style” stew . The idea is that a
hunter bags a bird, then forages some lovely mushrooms in
the forest on the way home. I’m not sure where the peppers
come from, perhaps a neighbor’s garden? In any case, the
ﬂavors are deep and bold and satisfying, particularly
during the colder months.
You can use any cut of chicken you like. I’m a true believer
in the skin-on, bone-in chicken thigh. I think it’s the only
part of modern chickens that has any ﬂavor , and the texture
stays moist no matter how long you cook it. I also like the
bites of chicken close to the bone, which are particularly
tender and ﬂavorful. But if you prefer boneless and
skinless, that’s ﬁne too . The stew is especially delicious
with good-quality egg noodles or homemade spaetzle.
21/4 lb/1 kg chick en thighs (about 8)
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
2 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil2 or 3 mild peppers such as r ed bell pepper, Italian frying
pepper, or Anaheim chile, stemmed, seeded, and cut
lengthwise into slices 1/4 in/6 mm wide  3 cups/720 ml V ery
Mushr oomy P orcini Tomato Sauce
1/2 cup/120 ml water, if needed
1/2 cup/20 g coarsely chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley  10
oz/280 g dried egg noodles, fr eshly cook ed, tossed with 1 to
2 tbsp unsalted butter, and k ept hot
Generously season the chicken all over with salt and
pepper . In a large frying pan (12 in/30.5 cm is a good size),
heat the oil over mediumhigh heat. Add the peppers,
season lightly with salt, and cook, stirring frequently , until
lightly browned and starting to soften, 4 to 5 minutes.
Transfer to a plate.
Return the frying pan to mediumhigh heat; you shouldn’t
need to add any more oil. Arrange the chicken pieces, skin-
side down, in the pan in a single layer . (If they don’t all ﬁt
comfortably in a single layer , you’ll need to use a second
pan and a little more oil.) Reduce the heat to medium and
cook, turning once, until nicely browned on both sides,
about 7 minutes per side.
Pour oﬀ any visible chicken fat (save the fat and use it for
cooking potatoes another time; it is delicious), return the
peppers to the pan, and add the tomato sauce. If the sauce
doesn’t cover the chicken by about halfway , stir in up to 1/2
cup/120 ml water . Adjust the heat to maintain a nice
simmer , cover , and cook, turning the pieces once halfway
through cooking, until the chicken is cooked through and is
very tender when you poke it with a knife, about 30
minutes more.Transfer the chicken to a platter or warmed dinner plates.
Add the parsley to the sauce and season with salt and
pepper . Pour the sauce over the chickenand serve right
away with the noodles.
COMFORTING RISOTTO with VERY MEATY
TOMATO SAUCE
SERVES 4
I generally like to keep my risotto as a fairly light dish so
the rice really shines, but it can also be delicious in a more
robust form, as in this recipe. It’s sort of the diﬀerence
between sliding a cashmere cardigan around my shoulders
and bundling up in a chunky Irish ﬁsherman sweater .
Look for Arborio rice in well-stocked grocery stores. Be
sure to buy an Italian brand, as I have found the domestic
brands are not as good. Carnaroli rice, which has a
particularly high starch content and ﬁrm texture, is also a
good choice for making risotto . Fior di Riso is my favorite
brand, as much for the charming mistranslations on the
packaging as for the excellent quality of the rice.
2 cups/480 ml V ery Meaty Tomato Sauce
2 tbsp unsalted butter or e xtra-virgin olive oil
3/4 cup/100 g ﬁnely chopped yellow onion or shallot  1
cup/215 g Arborio or Car naroli rice
1/2 cup/120 ml dry white wine
3 to 4 cups/720 to 960 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en
broth, or canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth, heatedKosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/2 cup/55 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
In a small saucepan, bring the tomato sauce to a simmer
over mediumhigh heat. Cook, stirring often, until very
concentrated and thick, about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, in a medium, heavy saucepan, melt the butter
over mediumhigh heat until foamy . Add the onion and cook,
stirring often, until very soft and fragrant but not browned,
4 to 5 minutes. Add the rice and cook, stirring constantly ,
until coated with the fat and glistening, 1 to 2 minutes
more.
Stir in the wine and simmer , stirring, until evaporated, 1 to
2 minutes. Stir in about 1/2 cup/120 ml of the hot broth.
Adjust the heat so the liquid bubbles merrily and cook,
scraping the bottom of the pan frequently , until the broth is
almost entirely evaporated. Continue adding broth about
1/2 cup/120 ml at a time, stirring frequently and cooking
until the broth is almost entirely evaporated before adding
more, until the rice is tender but still slightly ﬁrm at the
center and it is in a creamy matrix of starchy broth, about
20 minutes more. When the rice is almost done, add the
broth in smaller amounts and taste as you go so you don’t
overcook the rice.
When the risotto is tender , season with salt and pepper .
Divide evenly among warmed wide, shallow bowls and
make a well in the center of each serving. Ladle some of
the hot tomato sauce into each well and sprinkle with the
cheese. Serve right away .VEGETABLE, CHILE, AND NUT
SAUCES
THE RECIPES IN THIS CHAPTER ARE UNITED B Y A
MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE RA THER THAN A DEEP
AFFINITY OF TECHNIQUE OR INGREDIENT . The sauces
are similar in that they are purées (for the most part) of
vegetables, chiles (which are vegetables), and nuts, and
some of the sauces use vegetables, chiles, and nuts
together , so it made sense to corral them all here, even
though they have distinct and varied personalities. Many of
these sauces have roots in cuisines from around the world,
though they are not meant to be authentic versions of
anything other than authentic to the way I cook at home.
And they only scratch the surface of the countless sauces
that cooks in other parts of the world make every day .
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
Most of these sauces are made by simply cooking the main
ingredient until soft, pureeing it, and then seasoning it
(you’ll see that not all are cooked, or puréed, but most are).
The question the cook needs to ask when making these
sauces is how to capture enough depth of ﬂavor so they
become sauces and not simply purées. One answer comes
with a little help from our usual friends: ﬂavorful oils,
vinegars, spices, and aromatics such as garlic and herbs.
Each of the sauces in this chapter beneﬁts from another
ingredient that is an accent, counterpoint, or underpinning
for the ﬂavor of the primary ingredient in the sauce: fruityextra-virgin olive oil blended with nuts in the walnut sauce
or the reduced balsamic vinegar that gives nerve to the
butternut squash sauce .
Another key is cooking the main ingredient enough so that
its ﬂavor and texture are more concentrated than they
were in the ingredient’s original state, ensuring the sauce
delivers the necessary ﬂavor punch. Finally , it’s critical to
control the texture of these sauces. The primary
ingredients have seeds and skins and ﬁbers and chunks and
other textural elements that you need to wrangle.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
These sauces are dependent on texture, whether ﬂuid and
ﬂowing or thicker and “dollopy ,” and that ideal texture can
be elusive, given the variation in the consistency of your
main ingredients. The methods for most of these sauces are
straightforward: puréeing and straining. Although these
techniques are seemingly simple, how you execute them
can make or break your sauce.
You can purée your sauce ingredients in a blender or food
processor , pass them through a food mill, or , if very soft,
push them through a sieve. The French use a sieve
designed speciﬁcally for this purpose called a tamis
(pronounced tah MEE), which is also known as a drum
sieve. (I bought one during cooking school, but after a few
years, I realized that I was only using it as a steamer
basket, so I sold it at a yard sale.)
THE BLENDER  will give you the best consistency . But, as
I’ve noted elsewhere, I think a blender can be a pain to useand clean, so I use it only with large quantities. The trick,
however , is to begin by puréeing only the solids, adding any
liquid ingredients once you have a thick purée. That way ,
the blades are more eﬀicient and you don’t end up with
solid bits ﬂoating in liquid that sometimes just bounce
around and never become thoroughly pulverized. Do stop
the blender as needed and scrape down the sides with a
rubber spatula, being careful not to push so far down that
the spatula snags on the blades (one of the reasons I hate
blenders).
A FOOD PROCES SOR is a good choice if the main
ingredient you are puréeing is quite soft. If the vegetables
or chile is undercooked, the processor doesn’t always do
the best job of eliminating the graininess. Y ou also need to
scrape down the sides of a food processor midwhirl, but
that’s simple enough to do . A mixture with a lot of liquid
can be trouble, however , because of the hole in the center
of the processor bowl.
A FOOD MILL  is a good old-fashioned piece of equipment
that is fantastic for puréeing potatoes, celery root, and
other fall-apart starchy vegetables and is also brilliant at
separating out skins and seeds. So while the bell pepper
skins in the Smoky Red P epper Coulis  are puréed along
with the ﬂesh of the peppers if you use a blender or food
processor , most of the skins will be strained out if you use a
food mill. This results in a silkier sauce, though some
volume is lost.
This leads me to the issue of straining. I’m all for leaving
things natural if the ﬂavor is satisfactory . But with a sauce,
straining is often worth the extra eﬀort. Not only does it
remove distracting bits of cellulose, but it also aerates the
sauce, adding just a hint more creaminess to the feeling on
your tongue.To strain, I use a ﬁne-mesh sieve that is 7 inches/17
centimeters in diameter and has a long handle on one side
and a small loop on the other , which allows me to secure
the sieve over a bowl or saucepan as I work the contents
through the mesh. The best way to do that is with a rubber
spatula, though a wide wooden spoon is good, too . One of
my prize kitchen tools is an unassuming white plastic card
that I bought in P aris, curved on one side and straight on
the opposite side. It’s called a racle-tout, or “scrape-all,”
and it’s excellent for scraping out the last bit of batter from
a bowl and for forcing a mixture through a sieve and
scraping oﬀ the purée that clings to the underside. Y ou’ll
ﬁnd a few diﬀerent versions of this handy tool at cookware
stores. The one I like is made by Matfer .
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
The sauces are so diverse in this chapter that the serving
sizes vary from a couple of tablespoons for something like
the Butternut Squash and Apple Cider Sauce to 1/2 cup/120
milliliters for the red chiles sauce when used in the Simple
and Delicious Enchiladas.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
Almost all of these sauces are pureed, which is best
accomplished by using a food processor or blender . I prefer
the processor unless the sauce is very liquidy , in which case
the blender is best. A ﬁne-mesh sieve lets you give your
sauces a satiny texture.
STORAGE
Most of these sauces need to be eaten within a few days, so
it’s good to have a plan in mind when you make them. The
Roasted Green Chile and T omatillo Sauce with A vocado is
an exception—no need to plan, because it’s so good that
you can put it on everything. 
CARAMELIZED ONION COULIS
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Onions are a beautiful vegetable to transform into a sauce
because their ﬂavor is sweet and their texture is silky and
melting. They won’t get that way , however , if you don’t give
them enough time to caramelize slowly , so don’t rush the
cooking and be sure they don’t brown too quickly .
2 tbsp unsalted butter
11/2 lb/680 g onions, thinly sliced
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1 fresh r osemary sprig, 4 in/10 cm long
1/4 cup/60 ml cr ème fraîche, plus mor e if needed
1/2 cup/120 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en or
vegetable br oth, or canned r educed-sodium chick en or
vegetable br oth
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
Freshly gr ound black pepper
In a large, heavy frying pan, melt the butter over medium-
high heat. Add the onions and salt and stir to mix. Once the
onions start to steam and sizzle a bit, cover the pan, reduce
the heat to medium, and cook until the onions are starting
to get juicy and soft, about 10 minutes.Uncover , turn the heat to low , and cook slowly , stirring and
scraping frequently , until the onions have collapsed and are
starting to turn golden. A fter about 30 minutes, toss in the
rosemary and keep cooking, taking care to scrape the
bottom of the pan so nothing burns, until the onions are
sweet and deeply golden, 1 to 1 1/4 hours total.
Scrape the onions into a blender and return the pan to
medium heat. Add the crème fraîche and broth, bring to a
simmer , and deglaze the pan, scraping up all of the good
brown bits on the pan bottom. Add the contents of the pan
to the blender along with the lemon juice and process until
you have a smooth purée. T aste and season with a few
twists of pepper , then adjust with more salt, pepper , or
lemon if needed. If the purée is too thick, add a bit more
crème fraîche.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Use olive oil instead of butter and
vegetable br oth instead of cr ème fraîche to mak e the sauce
vegan. 
SMOKY RED PEPPER COULIS
MAKES 1 CUP/240 ML
This is a slight “upgrade” on a basic roasted red pepper
sauce. I like to use a mix of peppers (bell and pimiento are
great together) when I can ﬁnd interesting sweet varieties
at the farmers’ market, and I like the way the smoked
paprika extends that sweet pepper ﬂavor . Vinegar keeps
the sweetness balanced. I love this sauce drizzled over fat
grilled shrimp or slices of rare grilled ﬂank steak.
3 tbsp olive oil
2 lb/910 g mix ed sweet r ed peppers, stemmed, seeded, and
cut lengthwise into strips 1/2 in/12 mm wide
Kosher salt
1 large clove garlic, smashed
1 fresh r osemary sprig, 4 in/10 cm long
11/2 tsp Spanish sweet smok ed paprik a
1 tsp sher ry vinegar, plus mor e if needed
In a heavy , medium frying pan, heat the oil over medium
heat. Add the peppers, 1 tsp salt, garlic, and rosemary .
Cover , and cook the peppers until they start to release
some steam, about 3 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium-
low and cook the peppers slowly until they become very
soft and sweet and have released some juices, about 30minutes more. Uncover , add the paprika, and cook until the
juices are reduced to a thick glaze, 8 to 10 minutes. Stir in
the vinegar , remove from the heat, and let cool slightly .
Transfer the pepper mixture to a blender or food processor
and purée; add a little water or broth if the sauce is too
thick. T aste and adjust the salt and vinegar , if needed, for a
sweet-tangy balance. Push the sauce through a sieve for a
perfectly smooth texture. (Y ou can use it unstrained, too .
You just detect tiny bits of skin in the sauce.)
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 3 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 fr esh hot r ed chile, stemmed,
seeded, and chopped, with the sweet peppers. 
ROMESCO SAUCE
MAKES 2 CUPS/480 ML
My friend and fellow food writer Matthew Card makes a
mean romesco, so I asked him to contribute his recipe to
the book. If he hadn’t, I would have been trying to
duplicate his version of the classic Spanish sauce anyway ,
so he spared me the espionage. His sauce gets most of its
body from ﬂeshy roasted red peppers—from a jar is ﬁne—
but gets layers of can’t-stop-eating-this ﬂavor from fried
bread, two kinds of nuts, and a bit of sherry vinegar .
1 cup/55 g lightly pack ed 1/2-in/12-mm rustic artisanal br ead
or baguette cubes
3 cloves garlic, halved
6 tbsp/90 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 ripe plum tomato, cor ed and halved
1/2 cup/75 g almonds, toasted
1/2 cup/75 g hazelnuts, toasted and skinned (see bo x)
2 tsp pack ed minced fr esh thyme
2 tsp Hungarian sweet paprik a or Spanish sweet smok ed
paprik a
Small pinch of cayenne pepper, plus mor e if needed
8 oz/225 g jar red roasted r ed peppers, rinsed, dried, and
coarsely chopped (about 1 1/3 cups)
1 tbsp sher ry vinegarKosher salt
In a small frying pan, combine the bread cubes, garlic, and
4 tbsp/60 ml of the oil over medium heat. Cook, stirring
frequently , until the bread is lightly browned, about 5
minutes. Using a heat-resistant rubber spatula, transfer the
bread to a food processor , scraping out as much oil as
possible.
Return the pan to medium-high heat. Add the tomato, cut-
side down, and cook without moving it until browned, 3 to
5 minutes. Flip and lightly brown the skin side, about 3
minutes. Remove from the heat and chop coarsely when
cool enough to handle.
Add the nuts, thyme, paprika, and cayenne to the processor
and process with the bread until ground and evenly
combined, about 30 seconds, stopping as needed to scrape
down the sides of the work bowl. Add the peppers, tomato,
and vinegar and process until thoroughly blended, about 30
seconds. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt and
cayenne if needed. Finally , add the remaining 2 tbsp olive
oil and pulse brieﬂy just until combined.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Use all almonds, or even salted, fried
Marcona almonds for an e xtra-rich touch.
TOASTING AND SKINNING HAZELNUTS
To toast the nuts evenly without the risk of burning, heat
the oven to 350°F/180°C/gas 4, spread the nuts in a piepan, rimmed baking sheet, or shallow baking pan, and
toast until fragrant and lightly browned, 10 to 15
minutes. T o skin the hazelnuts, allow them to cool until
they can be comfortably handled, then rub them back and
forth between your palms. Alternatively , place them in a
sieve and rub them back and forth with your hand; the
mesh will act like sandpaper and help scrape oﬀ the
skins. 
CREAMY WALNUT SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Walnuts play a bigger role in many cuisines, such as those
of the Middle East and eastern Europe, than they do in
what we call American cuisine. This sauce is a marriage of
a traditional Turkish tarator  sauce and an Italian sauce
called agliata , with some meddling around of my own, of
course. It’s amazing how smooth and creamy the walnuts
become, and their slight nip of tannins gives a pleasing
edge to the sauce.
This sauce is particularly good on grilled vegetables,
especially asparagus and thick eggplant slices . It also
complements grilled ﬁsh, or it can be tossed with pasta and
then the pasta topped with grilled vegetables.
1 cup/115 g walnut halves
1 slice good white br ead (artisanal with crusts r emoved or
sandwich loaf is ﬁne)
1/4 cup/60 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth,
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth, or water
1 tbsp sher ry vinegar or fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if
needed
1 clove garlic
1/2 cup/120 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepperHeat the oven to 325°F/165°C/gas 3. Spread the walnuts in
a pie pan or rimmed baking sheet, place in the oven, and
toast lightly , 6 to 8 minutes. They should be just fragrant
and beginning to take on color but not turning deep brown.
Pour onto a plate and let cool.
Meanwhile, rip the bread into pieces, put it in a small bowl,
add the broth and vinegar , and toss to moisten evenly .
Leave to soak for about 15 minutes.
In a food processor , combine the cooled nuts, the bread and
any remaining liquid, and the garlic and process until a
thick purée forms, stopping as needed to scrap down the
sides of the work bowl. W ith the motor running, drizzle in
the oil to form a creamy emulsion. If the mixture seems a
bit thick and gloppy , pulse in a few tablespoons of water .
Season generously with salt and pepper and taste and
adjust with more vinegar if needed. Serve at room
temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/2 cup/55 g sliced yellow onion to the
processor with the nuts and br ead. 
ASIAN PEANUT SAUCE
MAKES 1 3/4 CUPS/420 ML
We all know that skewers of grilled satay are just an excuse
to eat the peanut sauce that usually comes with them, so
make a lot of this sauce and use it during the week on
grilled meats and vegetables, on noodle dishes, or spring
rolls.
There are many approaches to making this sauce, and
usually , I take a multicultural and easy approach—I use
mass-market peanut butter , which is simpler than whole
nuts, plus it gives the sauce a lovely consistency that stays
emulsiﬁed with the other ingredients better . If you can’t
ﬁnd the small can of coconut milk I call for , buy the larger
size, measure out 1/2 cup plus 3 tbsp/165 ml, and freeze the
rest.
Be sure to tinker with the ﬁnal seasoning until until the
sauce has a bright tension from tart lime juice, sweet
coconut milk, spicy hot-pepper sauce, and salty ﬁsh sauce.
1 tbsp canola or other neutral vegetable oil
2 tbsp minced shallot
1 tbsp minced, seeded fr esh hot chile such as jalapeño
1 clove garlic, chopped
1 tbsp peeled and ﬁnely chopped fr esh gingerOne 5 1/2-oz/165-ml can coconut milk (stir together the thick
cream and thinner milk befor e measuring)
3/4 cup/210 g cr eamy peanut butter
3 tbsp soy sauce
3 tbsp fr esh lime juice
2 tbsp water
1 tbsp lightly pack ed palm or light br own sugar
2 tsp Asian ﬁsh sauce
1/4 tsp hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add
the shallot, chile, garlic, and ginger and cook, stirring
frequently , until the aromatics are very soft and fragrant, 2
to 3 minutes. Do not allow them to brown.
Add the coconut milk and simmer for 1 to 2 minutes, then
remove the pan from the heat and stir in the peanut butter .
As it begins to melt, switch to a whisk and whisk until a
smooth emulsion forms. Return the pan to low heat, whisk
in the soy sauce, lime juice, water , sugar , ﬁsh sauce, and
hot-pepper sauce and simmer for 4 to 5 minutes to blend
everything nicely . Taste and adjust all of the ﬂavorings so
the sauce is creamy but bright and exciting. Serve slightly
warm or at room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp Thai r ed cur ry paste with the
coconut milk. 
GARLICKY POTATO SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Potato may seem an unlikely main ingredient for a sauce,
but when puréed and emulsiﬁed with olive oil, lemon juice,
and a bit of water , this Greek -inspired sauce is luscious and
a great dip for vegetables. Use a good-quality olive oil,
something fruity and fragrant but not biting, and add the
garlic cloves to your taste.
8 oz/225 g star chy potatoes such as russets, peeled and cut
into chunks
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 to 2 cloves garlic
1/2 cup/120 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
2 to 3 tbsp fr esh lemon juice
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
In a medium saucepan, combine the potatoes, 2 tsp salt,
and water to cover by 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm and bring to a
boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to maintain a vigorous
simmer and cook, uncovered, until very tender when
pierced with a fork, 20 to 25 minutes. Scoop out about 1
cup/240 ml of the cooking water and reserve and then
drain the potatoes in a colander .Transfer the potatoes to a food processor , add the garlic,
and pulse a few times. Then, with the motor running,
drizzle in the oil. (The sauce may look slightly curdled at
this point, but it will smooth out as you add cooking water
later.) Pulse as you add the lemon juice and lemon zest and
then add enough of the cooking water to give the sauce the
consistency of thin sour cream. Season generously with salt
and pepper .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp fr esh dill with the lemon juice. 
BUTTERNUT SQUASH AND APPLE CIDER
SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Butternut is the winter squash in which ﬂavor and a smooth
texture intersect deliciously , so it’s not surprising that it
makes a lovely sauce. It’s a natural for pasta and gnocchi,
but it is also wonderful with a simple pork cutlet.
One 1-lb/455-g butter nut squash
1 tbsp olive oil
1 small shallot, diced
Kosher salt
1 cup/240 ml unﬁlter ed apple cider
1 fresh thyme sprig
1 small dried hot chile such as árbol
1/4 cup/60 ml water
1/2 tsp balsamic vinegar, plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp unsalted butter
Using a large chef ’s knife, cut a thick slice oﬀ the top and
bottom of the squash, then cut the squash in half crosswise.
Place half of the squash cut-side down on the cutting board
and, using a sharp paring knife, cut away the peel. The peel
is tough and can resist you, so work carefully . Repeat with
the second half of the squash. Y ou’ll see that one of thehalves is solid ﬂesh and the other has the seeds in it. Cut
the seeded half open lengthwise, scoop out the seeds with a
spoon, and discard them. Cut the ﬂesh of both halves into
1-in/2.5-cm cubes and set aside.
In a large saucepan, heat the oil over medium-high heat.
Add the shallot and a pinch of salt and cook, stirring, until
soft and fragrant but not brown, about 1 minute. Add the
squash and sauté until lightly golden, another 3 to 4
minutes. Add the cider , thyme, and chile and simmer until
the cider is reduced to about 1/4 cup/60 ml. Add the water
and continue to simmer until the squash is very tender
when pierced with a fork, 4 to 6 minutes longer . Remove
from the heat, remove and discard the thyme and chile, and
let cool slightly .
Transfer the squash mixture to a food processor or blender
and process until a smooth purée forms. If the purée is at
all ﬁbrous, push it through a ﬁne-mesh sieve. Return the
purée to the pan over medium heat, add the vinegar , and
season with salt. If the sauce is too thick, thin it with a little
more water . Heat to serving temperature and whisk in the
butter . Taste and adjust the seasoning again before serving.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
days or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use r osemary instead of thyme. 
FRUITY AND SPICY DRIED RED CHILE
SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/480 ML
The day I realized that I could make my own sauce for
enchiladas was a day when life’s lovely possibilities glowed
a few degrees brighter . The sauce turns ordinary corn
tortillas and a few drizzles of sour cream into a feast .
12 dried New Me xico chiles
2 ancho chiles
2 tbsp olive oil, lar d, or r ender ed chick en fat
1/2 yellow onion, sliced
Kosher salt
3 large cloves garlic, smashed
1/2 tsp gr ound cumin
1 tsp sugar, plus mor e if needed
1/2 cup/120 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en or
vegetable br oth, or canned r educed-sodium chick en or
vegetable br oth
Break open the dried chiles, discard the stems, and shake
out the seeds. Depending on how brittle the chiles are, you
can use your hands or use kitchen scissors. The chiles
contain a natural chemical that can irritate your skin or
eyes, so be careful. If your skin is particularly sensitive,wear rubber gloves. Be sure to wash your hands thoroughly
with soap and water when you have ﬁnished.
Place a large frying pan over medium-high heat, add the
chiles, and toast them by pressing them ﬂat onto the hot
surface with a metal spatula. Once they change color and
you can start to smell them, they are ready . Don’t toast
them too long or they’ll scorch. Transfer the chiles to a
medium bowl, add hot water to cover , and let soak until
quite soft, at least 30 minutes.
While the chiles are soaking, in a medium frying pan, heat
the oil over medium-high heat. Add the onion, season with
1/4 tsp salt, and cook, stirring frequently , until the onion
starts to sizzle. Then reduce the heat to low and continue to
cook until the onion is very soft and sweet and is starting to
caramelize, about 15 minutes. Add the garlic, cumin, and
sugar and cook for another 30 seconds or so . Remove from
the heat and set aside until the chiles are ready .
Drain the chiles, reserving the soaking water . In a blender ,
combine the chiles and the onion mixture and process until
puréed, adding enough of the broth to create a smooth
purée and stopping to scrape down the sides of the blender .
Now add the remaining broth and process, adding a little of
the soaking water if needed to get a nice pouring
consistency reminiscent of very thick canned tomato juice.
Taste and adjust the seasoning with more salt or sugar if
needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
week or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/2 cup/120 ml sour cr eam with the
broth to mak e the sauce richer and even less authentic! 
ROASTED GREEN CHILE AND TOMATILLO
SAUCE WITH AVOCADO
MAKES 4 CUPS/960 ML
My friend and great cook Gilberto Martin del Campo
showed me how to make this brightly ﬂavored, pretty green
sauce. It’s so easy to whip up and so much better than any
commercial salsa verde. Use it on melty-cheesy nachos, on
scrambled eggs with feta cheese, and as a base for a pork
and green chile stew (though save the avocado to use as a
garnish, not in the sauce).
3 to 4 jalapeño chiles, stemmed and seeded
1 poblano chile, stemmed and seeded
1 lb/455 g tomatillos, papery husks r emoved, rinsed, and
halved
1 yellow onion, thickly sliced
3 cloves garlic, smashed
2 tbsp olive oil
Kosher salt
1 small ripe avocado, halved, pitted, peeled, and ﬁnely
diced
2 tbsp fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
1/2 cup/20 g chopped fr esh cilantr oHeat the oven to 425°F/220°C/gas 7. In a large bowl,
combine the chiles, tomatillos, onion, garlic, and oil; season
with salt; and toss to coat. Spread the vegetables on a
rimmed baking sheet.
Roast the vegetables, turning them a couple of times about
midway through cooking, until they have collapsed and
started to brown, 15 to 25 minutes. Remove from the oven
and let cool.
Scrape the cooled vegetables into a food processor or
blender and pulse to create a chunky purée. Transfer to a
medium bowl and taste and adjust the seasoning with salt.
Gently fold in the avocado, lime juice, and cilantro . Let the
sauce sit for 20 minutes or so to allow the ﬂavors to marry ,
then taste and adjust the seasoning with salt and with more
lime juice, if needed. Serve at room temperature or chill
before serving.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze in one or mor e ziplock fr eezer bags for up to
2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Omit the avocado and add 2 small plum
tomatoes, chopped, with the lime juice and cilantr o. 
FRESH CHILE AND SUMMER TOMATO
SALSA
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS/720 ML
This is a regulation fresh salsa, nothing groundbreaking
but delicious nonetheless. It’s also a template for
improvisation. Y ou can play with the mix of chiles, try
diﬀerent types of tomatoes, add extra spices, use diﬀerent
herbs, and even include diced fruit, black beans, or diced
radish or jicama. I’m taking the unusual step of soaking the
onion in cold water to leech out some of the harsher
compounds. I love the ﬂavor of raw onion but it can feel
like an assault on my system sometimes. Y ou can opt to
skip this step. I salt the tomato ahead of time to draw oﬀ
some of the juice and concentrate the tomato ﬂavor . This
prevents the salsa from being watery . And many salsa
recipes don’t call for oil, but I ﬁnd that the oil helps unlock
and distribute ﬂavors better .
The salsa itself is immensely versatile: pair it with chips, of
course, but also with everything from fresh ﬁsh, eggs,
sliced steak, beans, and corn bread to grilled cheese.
1/2 cup/70 g ﬁnely diced yellow onion
2 cups/340 g ﬁnely diced fr esh ripe tomato
Kosher salt1/4 cup/30 g ﬁnely diced jalapeño chile
1/2 cup/55 g ﬁnely diced fr esh Anaheim or other mild fr esh
chile
1 to 2 tbsp lime juice
1 to 3 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 tsp gr ound cumin
2 tbsp olive oil
1/2 cup/20 g chopped fr esh cilantr o
Put the onion in a bowl of very cold water to cover and soak
for 20 minutes. Drain and blot dry on paper towels.
Toss the tomato with 1 tsp salt and let sit while the onion
soaks. A fter draining the onion, drain oﬀ the accumulated
juices from the tomato .
In a medium bowl, toss together the onion, tomato,
jalapeño, Anaheim, 1 tbsp of the lime juice, garlic, cumin,
and olive oil. Let sit for 20 minutes to allow the ﬂavors to
blend. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt and more
lime juice, if needed. Just before serving, add the cilantro
and toss to mix.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Roast the onion and chiles in a
450°F/230°C/gas 8 oven until sof tened and slightly char red,
about 20 minutes, befor e dicing.
GRILLED EGGPLANT ANTIPASTO with
CREAMY WALNUT SAUCE, TOMATO, and
FETA
SERVES 8 TO 10 AS P ART OF AN ANTIP ASTO SPREAD
I often serve this dish as part of a
spread of salads and vegetable
dishes, all laid out on pretty
platters, which is my favorite
formula for summer entertaining.
Sometimes I include a meat dish,
such as sliced grilled pork
tenderloin, but usually the meal
feels festive and complete
without it, as long as there is a
good variety of vegetables and a
grain or bean dish or two . I ﬁnd
that eggplant is “meaty” tasting,
so it’s a key part of the balance.
You can use smaller Japanese eggplants and split them
lengthwise, but I like the nice round medallions that you
get from an Italian or globe eggplant. I avoid super-bulbous
ones, however , because they usually conceal lots of seeds.
If you want to salt your slices, do so, though I don’t see a
huge beneﬁt to that extra step. Most fresh eggplants are
not that bitter . Use any good-quality feta cheese; I like
Valbreso brand, which is made from sheep’s milk in France.
1 lb/455 g eggplant, stem cut oﬀ
Olive oil for brushing
Kosher salt
3 medium, ripe tomatoes such as Early Girl, or 1 pt/480 ml
cherry tomatoes
11/2 cups/360 ml Cr eamy Walnut Sauce
4 oz/115 g feta cheese, crumbled
1/4 cup/10 g chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley (optional)Prepare a medium ﬁre in a charcoal or gas grill. The ﬁre is
ready when you can comfortably hold your hand, palm-side
down, 2 to 3 in/5 to 7.5 cm above the grill rack for 4
seconds. Brush the grill rack so that it is perfectly clean.
Using a vegetable peeler or a sharp paring knife, peel
strips of skin lengthwise oﬀ the eggplant to cover it
completely in vertical stripes. This eliminates much of the
can-be-tough skin but leaves enough to keep your slices
intact. Now cut the eggplant crosswise into rounds 1/2 in/12
mm thick.
Brush both sides of each slice with the oil and season with
salt.
Place the eggplant slices on the grill rack and grill, turning
once, until nicely grill marked on both sides and tender , 3
to 4 minutes per side. Pile the slices on a plate, cover with
aluminum foil, and leave to steam and ﬁnish cooking for
another 15 minutes. This will create the creamy texture you
want.
If using the medium tomatoes, core them and then cut into
very thin slices. Spread them out on a plate, season lightly
with salt, and let some of the juices drain oﬀ so they won’t
make the eggplant slices soggy , about 10 minutes. If using
cherry tomatoes, remove the stems and quarter the
tomatoes lengthwise. Put them in a colander or sieve, salt
them lightly , and let them drain for about 10 minutes.
Arrange the eggplant slices on a platter , overlapping them
slightly . Spread some of the sauce on each slice, lay a thin
tomato slice or a big pinch of tomato pieces on top, then
ﬁnish with crumbled feta and with a little parsley (if using).
Serve cool or at room temperature. The dish can also beassembled up to 1 hour in advance and refrigerated. Let it
sit at room temperature to warm up a bit before serving.
GOAT CHEESE and LEEK TART with
BUTTERNUT SQUASH SAUCE
SERVES 10 AS A FIRST COURSE
This is a simple-to-assemble appetizer pastry that is made
special by pouring a ribbon of autumn-colored sauce
around it. P epperidge F arm puﬀ pastry is easy to ﬁnd in
most grocery stores, but it isn’t made with butter so the
ﬂavor is not the best. Look for Dufour brand if you want an
all-butter pastry or make your own (I teach you how in my
cookbook Puﬀ).
3 leeks, about 8 oz/225 g each befor e trimming
2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp olive oil
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 fresh thyme sprig
1 clove garlic, minced
8 oz/225 g puﬀ pastry dough, thawed if fr ozen (1 sheet
Pepperidge F arm, 1/2 sheet Dufour, or homemade)
2 tbsp Dijon mustar d
4 oz/115 g fr esh goat cheese
1 cup/240 ml Butter nut Squash and Apple Cider Sauce ,
heated
2 tbsp chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsleyTrim oﬀ the roots and dark green tops of the leeks. Split
the leeks in half lengthwise and rinse very well, separating
the leaves to wash away the grit hiding between them. Cut
the leeks crosswise into slices 1/4 in/6 mm thick.
In a large frying pan, melt the butter with the oil over
medium heat. Add the leeks and season lightly with salt
and pepper . Add the thyme sprig, cover , and cook, stirring
and scraping the bottom of the pan often so the juices don’t
burn, until the leeks are just tender , about 10 minutes.
Uncover , stir in the garlic, and continue cooking until the
leeks are very tender and the juices are just barely
browning on the bottom of the pan, 3 to 5 minutes more. If
the leeks look like they are at risk of burning or sticking,
add a few spoonfuls of water to loosen them. Remove from
the heat, remove and discard the thyme sprig, and let the
leek mixture cool completely .
Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C/gas 6. On a lightly ﬂoured
work surface, roll out the pastry into an 11-by-15-in/28-by-
38-cm rectangle. Cut the rectangle in half lengthwise so
you have two 5 1/2-by-15-in/14-by-38-cm rectangles. Slide
one rectangle onto a large rimless baking sheet and prick it
all over with a fork. Moisten the long edges with some
water and fold them over to create a 1/2-in/12-mm border .
Press ﬁrmly to secure the border .
Spread the pastry with half of the mustard, and then
spread half of the cooled leeks evenly on top. Crumble half
of the goat cheese evenly over the leeks. Repeat with the
remaining pastry rectangle, mustard, leeks, and goat
cheese and transfer to the baking sheet.
Bake until the pastry is puﬀed around the edges and deep
golden brown (lift up the edge to check the bottom), 22 to25 minutes. Slide the tarts onto racks and let cool until just
barely warm.
Slide the tarts from the racks onto a cutting board. Cut
each tart crosswise into ﬁve slices. Transfer to individual
plates and spoon a generous ribbon of sauce around each
piece. Sprinkle with the parsley and serve warm. (Y ou can
bake and cool the tarts up to 8 hours ahead and reheat in a
350°F/180°C/gas 4 oven for about 15 minutes.) 
POTATO OMELET with ROASTED GREEN
CHILE and TOMATILLO SAUCE with
AVOCADO
SERVES 2
This is deﬁnitely a weeknight, make-dinner-from-what’s-in-
the-fridge dish, but one that rewards you highly for modest
eﬀort. Y ou need to have the chile sauce already made, but if
for some reason you don’t, it’s okay to use a good salsa
verde  from a jar and add some avocado . I like Desert
Pepper Trading Company and Frontera brands, but many
other good ones are on the market.
1 small potato, peeled and cut into small chunks
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
4 or 5 lar ge eggs
2 tbsp unsalted butter, or 1 tbsp each unsalted butter and
olive oil
1/2 cup/120 ml Roasted Gr een Chile and T omatillo Sauce
with A vocado
1/4 cup/30 g shr edded cheese such as Monter ey Jack,
Havarti, or Gruyèr e
In a small saucepan, combine the potato, 1 tsp salt, and
water to cover by 1 in/2.5 cm and bring to a boil over highheat. Reduce the heat to maintain a vigorous simmer and
cook, uncovered, until very tender when pierced with a
fork, about 15 minutes. Drain well in a sieve, transfer to a
small bowl, and crush lightly with a fork. Season with salt
and pepper and cover to keep warm.
In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs until well blended. Add
1/2 tsp salt and several good twists of pepper and whisk
again.
In a 9-in/23-cm nonstick or well-seasoned frying pan, melt
the butter over medium-high heat. A fter it foams and the
bubbles start to subside, pour in the eggs. Reduce the heat
to medium and let the eggs sit undisturbed until the edges
start to lighten up as they set, about 30 seconds. W ith a
heat-resistant rubber spatula, lift up an edge and let some
of the liquid egg run underneath. W ork your way around
the pan, lifting the edge and allowing the egg to run
underneath. (This creates nice layers of omelet beneath the
top layer .) Take care that the eggs are not browning. If they
threaten to brown, turn down the heat or work faster .
When the surface of the omelet is almost set, distribute the
potato in a line down the center , fold one side over , and
then fold the other side. Slide the omelet onto a cutting
board and let it sit for a few seconds to settle.
Cut the omelet in half crosswise and transfer to individual
plates. Spoon the green chile sauce over half of the omelet
on each plate, covering the cut end. T op with the cheese,
dividing it evenly , and serve right away .
SIMPLE AND DELICIOUS ENCHILADAS
SERVES 4
My Mexican-born friend Gilberto
Martin del Campo, who taught
me how to make the green chile
sauce on page 82, also showed
me how to make these
enchiladas, which is how a lot of
people in Mexico prepare them
and is very unlike the gloppy
“cheese enchiladas” of the typical
Tex-Mex place on this side of the
border . Sometimes Gilberto will
put some queso fresco into the
center of the tortilla before he
folds it, which is a lovely
variation. Make a platter of these enchiladas and serve
them with fresh fruit for a perfect light supper or lunch. Of
course, it will be diﬀicult to ﬁll the platter because the cook
usually wants to eat them right from the frying pan.
This method of frying a sauce-coated tortilla probably
seems unusual, but you’re not frying the tortillas to get
them crisp and golden. The idea is to make them supple,
tasty, and hot. La T ortilla F actory packages “hand made
style corn tortillas,” which are a blend of corn and wheat
and have a lovely springy-tender texture. They’re a good
choice for this dish. Or , if possible, buy locally produced
real handmade corn tortillas. Cotija cheese, named after a
town in the Mexican state of Michoacán, is a slightly dry
and crumbly cow’s milk cheese with a nice tang. It’s
available in many grocery stores, but if you can’t ﬁnd it,
use a dryish feta cheese instead.2 cups/480 ml F ruity and Spicy Dried R ed Chile Sauce
4 tbsp/60 ml olive oil
Twelve 6-in/15-cm cor n tortillas
1/2 cup/55g crumbled Cotija cheese
1/2 cup/120 ml sour cr eam
1 tsp fr esh lime juice
Heat the oven to 250°F/120°C/gas 1/2 to keep the
enchiladas warm.
To keep things from getting messy , set up your workstation
like this: P our the chile sauce into a shallow dish, such as a
pie plate. If you’re right-handed, set this to the left of the
stove and put the stack of tortillas within easy reach. Put a
large baking dish—a 9-by-13-in/23-by-33-cm dish is a good
size—to the right of the stove.
In a frying pan, heat 1 tbsp of the oil over medium-high
heat. Dip a tortilla into the chile sauce, coating on both
sides and letting a little bit drip oﬀ , and then lay the tortilla
in the hot oil. W atch out, as it will spit and sizzle. If there is
room in the pan, coat a second tortilla and add it. Cook for
30 seconds, turn, and cook on the second side for a few
more seconds until the tortilla is ﬂoppy and hot. Slip tongs
or a long, thin metal spatula carefully under the middle of
the tortilla, lift it carefully , and let any oil drip back into the
pan. Transfer the tortilla to the baking dish, fold it in half ,
and then in half again to make a loose triangle.
Repeat with the rest of the tortillas, adding more oil to the
pan as needed, and snugging the tortillas together in a neat
single layer in the baking dish. Crumble the cheese evenly
over the folded tortillas and pop them into the oven to
warm back up, 5 to 7 minutes.In a small bowl, stir together the sour cream and lime juice
and drizzle over the surface of the enchiladas. Serve right
away .BUTTER SAUCES
BEURRE BLANC , OR “ WHITE BUT TER,” MA Y BE THE
POSTER CHILD FOR MISUNDERSTOOD FRENCH
SAUCES . It has a reputation for being tricky to make,
ﬁnicky to serve, and richer than what most modern diners
like to eat. But I am here to tell you none of that is true. A
butter sauce is one of the easiest sauces to master , and
while it is indeed buttery—it’s a butter sauce, after all—you
don’t need to ﬂood your dish with it. A generous drizzle is
usually plenty .
A well-made butter sauce has an exquisite ﬂavor tension
between acid and butter . The sauce tastes at once bright
and mellow , tangy and rich. It’s a dynamic and compelling
combination. In other words, I often ﬁnd myself eating a
spoonful directly from the saucepan.
I also like the process of making this sauce. It is a beautiful
thing to watch as hunks of cold butter relax into a creamy ,
satiny liquid. Indeed, it makes you feel like a genius cook.
Beurre blanc is a classic accompaniment to ﬁsh dishes or to
mild vegetables such as asparagus, and that is generally
how I use it. But some of my gutsier butter sauces, such as
Soy-Ginger Butter Sauce , Balsamic Beurre Rouge , or
Orange-Rosemary Balsamic Butter Sauce , pair well with
pork and beef , too.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
Butter sauces have two main components: a base made
from reducing one or two acidic liquids and the butter .
Aromatics or other ﬂavorings are also usually involved, but
they are merely delicious additions and are not essential to
the architecture of the sauce.
The reduction phase is a matter of letting the liquids boil
down until only a tablespoon or two of syrupy liquid are left
in the pan. As this happens, I like to scrape down the sides
of the pan with a heat-resistant rubber spatula (one of my
top kitchen utensils!) to incorporate any splashes back into
the main volume. That simple action helps develop the
ﬂavor of the sauce because the small droplets on the pan
sides are reducing even faster and getting lightly
caramelized or toasted. When they are blended back into
the main sauce base, they bring that ﬂavor with them.
The butter phase is what gives people anxiety . The idea is
to add cold butter to the reduced acidic liquid in such a
way that you encourage the butter to melt but also remain
emulsiﬁed and creamy (rather than melt to the point where
the butterfat separates and it becomes oily). Most recipes
instruct you to do this over very low heat, adding one small
chunk of butter at a time and avoiding boiling at all costs.
You can do it that way , but I think it’s easier and the
emulsion is more stable (so your sauce won’t separate as it
sits) if you add the butter all at once over medium-high
heat and let the sauce actually boil. This method has the
added beneﬁt of producing a hotter sauce, as well. Chef
Chambrette, my favorite teacher at La V arenne cooking
school, taught me to make beurre blanc this way , and I’ve
never looked back.
Using pristine, best-quality butter is, of course, important
for the success of a butter sauce. Although I like salted
butter for eating, unsalted is best here so that you cancontrol the amount of salt in the sauce. If you have access
to specialty butters, such as a cultured European-style
butter or a seasonal butter from a local dairy , by all means
use them in your butter sauces. But even if you are using
supermarket butter , be sure it is as fresh as possible. If you
notice a darker outer layer when you cut into a stick, the
butter has gotten old and oxidized. Replace it with a fresh
package.
The French have a rather more limited view of this type of
sauce than I do . They make butter sauces two ways: the
classic beurre blanc, made with white wine and white wine
vinegar , and a red wine–vinegar version, called beurre
rouge. But don’t let French rules stand in your way . The
method for making a butter sauce is wide open for
improvisation, and you can make your butter sauces based
on just about anything acidic that you can think of , from
balsamic vinegar to lemon juice to apple cider to soy sauce
or even beer . Anything will work that can be reduced to an
acidic and ﬂavorful base to which the cold butter can be
added.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
In general, only two things can go wrong with a butter
sauce. First, you let your liquids reduce too much. It is easy
to do: walk over to the fridge to get the butter and when
you return your pan is totally dry . But wait! If the liquid has
totally evaporated but the dry glaze has not burned at all,
just pull the pan oﬀ the heat and add 2 tablespoons of
water to “reconstitute” it—no worries. If you can see or
smell that the reduction has started to caramelize or evenburn, however , you should start over because the ﬂavor of
the sauce will be compromised.
Second, once you add the butter , the emulsion breaks and
your sauce separates. This happens for two reasons: you’re
trying to whisk in too much butter and the emulsiﬁcation
can’t hold it all, or you let the sauce get too hot and the
butter melts incorrectly . The remedy is the same: if your
sauce looks ﬁne right up until the end and then you
suddenly see droplets of butterfat forming, pull it oﬀ the
heat and whisk in a teaspoon or two of cold water or heavy
cream.
You can preemptively avoid a broken sauce by adding some
cream to the reduction before you add the butter . Many
chefs do this as a matter of course, especially if they’re
making the sauce for a restaurant, where it needs to sit,
well behaved, throughout the dinner service. I prefer to use
cream only when I want a truly creamy dimension to the
sauce; I don’t use it to prevent breakage. Even a little bit of
extra cream can mute the subtle dynamic between the acid
and butter , which I like, but it’s a perfectly good trick to
use if you’re feeling less than conﬁdent.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
Usually 2 tablespoons per person is the average serving,
though it will depend on what the sauce accompanies.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
A Windsor pan, which has sloped sides, is perfect for
making butter sauces. The wider top encourages quickevaporation and the narrower base helps keep your
reduction from spreading out too far and scorching. Y ou
can use a whisk to mix in the butter , but since you’re not
trying to incorporate any air , a heat-resistant rubber
spatula is a good choice. If you want a perfectly smooth
sauce, use a ﬁne-mesh sieve to strain out the shallots and
other aromatic additions. And if you make the sauce ahead,
like for a dinner party , you can keep it warm in a thermos
or over hot water (no hotter than 110°F/43°C) in a double
boiler .
STORAGE
Butter sauces are ephemeral—quick to make and meant to
be enjoyed soon thereafter . You can easily hold a butter
sauce for a couple of hours, but once it has cooled—which
means the butter has resolidiﬁed—it is not easy to bring it
back to life. If you have leftover butter sauce, refrigerate it
and then just scoop out a spoonful to dollop onto cooked
vegetables. Don’t try to re-create the satiny ﬂuid texture of
the original sauce. 
BEURRE FONDU (MELTED BUTTER)
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This sauce, which is sometimes called drawn butter , is
simply melted butter and lemon juice. But leave it to the
French to reﬁne a simple thing into a creamy sauce that
beautifully cloaks food, distributing the butter and lemon
ﬂavors evenly . Use this as a dip for Dungeness crab or
lobster or as a sauce for tender spring vegetables,
especially asparagus, fava beans, or baby carrots.
1/4 cup/60 ml water
1/2 cup/115 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
Kosher salt
In a small saucepan, bring the water to a boil over medium-
high heat. Add the butter and start stirring it around in
circles with a whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything
that lets you “stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move
it around easily . The butter will start to melt and the
mixture will bubble and boil around the edges. The melted
butter should look creamy , rather than melted and oily .
Keep stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit. Add the lemon juice and 1/4 tsp salt.Taste and add more lemon juice or salt if needed. Serve
right away .
STORAGE  This sauce must be served the moment it is
ready. 
CLASSIC BEURRE BLANC (WHITE BUTTER
SAUCE)
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
A beurre blanc (pronounced buhr blahnk) is like an elegant
version of melted butter and lemon, and it’s just about as
easy to make. The texture here is as important as the ﬂavor
—in fact, the texture contributes to the smooth ﬂavor—so
pay attention when incorporating the butter to make sure
that it blends well and emulsiﬁes into a creamy sauce. My
method accomplishes this over high heat, but if you’re
nervous working over high heat, you can cut the butter into
several pieces and work in the pieces one by one over low
heat.
A beurre blanc is at once light and rich, so it is best on
lighter foods, such as ﬁsh and shellﬁsh, chicken, and
vegetables. This classic version is straightforward and a
perfect canvas for fresh herbs, if you want to dress it up a
bit.
1/4 cup/60 ml dry white wine such as Sauvignon Blanc
1/4 cup/60 ml white wine vinegar
1 tbsp minced shallot
1/2 cup/115 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed1 tsp fr esh lemon juice
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound white pepper
In a small saucepan, combine the wine, vinegar , and shallot
and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Cook,
stirring and scraping the sides of the pan occasionally with
a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the liquid is reduced
to about 2 tbsp, 4 to 5 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit. Add the lemon juice, 1/4 tsp salt, and a
pinch of pepper . Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt
and pepper if needed. If the sauce is still very sharp, whisk
in another 1/2 tbsp cold butter .
For a perfectly smooth sauce, strain it through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve. If you are okay with the shallot, serve as is. If
possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp chopped fr esh tender herb
such as parsley, basil, chervil, chives, cilantr o, dill, or
tarragon, or a mixtur e. 
BALSAMIC BEURRE ROUGE (BALSAMIC–
RED WINE BUTTER SAUCE)
MAKES ABOUT 2/3 CUP/165 ML
I ﬁnd that the red wine in beurre rouge can make the sauce
overly tannic, so I like to blend balsamic vinegar with the
wine to add a touch of sweetness and to round out the
sauce. Although this sauce is just as elegant as beurre
blanc and a lovely partner for meaty ﬁsh such as halibut or
salmon, it’s gutsy enough to drizzle over medallions of beef
or pork, too .
3/4 cup/180 ml fruity (but not oak y) red wine such as P inot
Noir, Syrah, or T empranillo
1 tbsp minced shallot
1 fresh thyme sprig
1/4 cup/60 ml balsamic vinegar
1/2 cup/115 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
1/2 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a small saucepan, combine the wine, shallot, and thyme
and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Boil until
reduced by half , about 4 minutes. Add the vinegar and
continue to simmer , stirring and scraping the sides of thepan occasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until
the liquid is reduced to about 2 tbsp, 4 to 5 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit.
Pluck out and discard the thyme, and add the lemon juice,
1/4 tsp salt, and a few generous grinds of pepper . Taste and
adjust the seasoning with lemon juice, salt, and pepper if
needed. If the sauce is still very sharp, whisk in another 1/2
tbsp cold butter . If it is ﬂat, whisk in more lemon juice.
For a perfectly smooth sauce, strain it through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve. If you’re okay with the shallot, serve as is. If possible,
serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Substitute 1/2 cup/120 ml ruby port for all
of the r ed wine. 
CREAMY, LEMONY BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
Some chefs add heavy cream or crème fraîche to their
butter sauces to ensure a stable emulsion (meaning the
sauce will be less likely to separate if it’s kept warm for a
while before serving). The only time I add cream is when I
want the ﬂavor and texture of the addition to be part of the
character of the sauce. Here, the cream helps take the
sharp edge oﬀ the wine-vinegar reduction, which means
that you can use a bit less butter … so you can think of this
as a low-fat sauce!
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1/4 cup/60 ml white wine vinegar
1 tbsp minced shallot
1/4 cup/60 ml cr ème fraîche or heavy cr eam
4 tbsp/55 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound white pepper
In a small saucepan, combine the lemon juice, vinegar , and
shallot and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat.
Cook, stirring and scraping the sides of the pan
occasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the
liquid is reduced to about 2 tbsp, 4 to 5 minutes. Add thecrème fraîche, bring to a simmer , and simmer until slightly
reduced, about 30 seconds.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit. Add 1/4 tsp salt and a pinch of pepper .
Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper if
needed. If the sauce is still very sharp, whisk in another 1/2
tbsp cold butter .
For a perfectly smooth sauce, strain it through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve. If you are okay with the shallot, serve as is. If
possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Use Meyer lemon juice instead of the
regular lemon juice and add 1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely
grated Meyer lemon zest af ter adding the butter . 
LEMON-CAPER BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
I only need to read the name of this sauce and I see the
ﬁllets of sole in the hot sauté pan, delicate and golden
around the edges, the perfect sweet partner for this zesty
but elegant sauce. Or , to make a slightly lighter dish, I
might cook the sole en papillote —seasoned with salt and
pepper , wrapped in parchment (or aluminum foil, let’s
make things easy), and baked with no added fat. Bake the
packets on a large rimmed baking sheet in a
400°F/200°C/gas 6 oven for 5 to 8 minutes, depending on
the thickness of the ﬁsh. It’s so simple and delicious. The
sauce is also excellent on braised or grilled leeks, or as a
dipping sauce for steamed artichoke.
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tbsp minced shallot
1/2 cup/115 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
1 tbsp drained capers, chopped
1 tbsp chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepperIn a small saucepan, combine the lemon juice, vinegar , and
shallot and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat.
Cook, stirring and scraping the sides of the pan
occasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the
liquid is reduced to about 2 tbsp, 4 to 5 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit. Whisk in the capers, parsley , lemon
zest, 1/4 tsp salt, and a few generous grinds of pepper . Taste
and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper if needed. If
the sauce is still very sharp, whisk in another 1/2 tbsp cold
butter . If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Omit the parsley and add 1 tbsp chopped
fresh dill and 2 tsp ﬁnely diced cor nichon with the capers. 
JALAPEÑO-LIME-GINGER BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES 1/3 CUP/75 ML
This sauce embodies the concept of sprightly: it’s light,
bright, and refreshing, and boasts some deﬁnite zing from
the chiles and ginger . It is beautiful drizzled over stir-fried
vegetables, grilled shrimp, or the chicken cutlet on page
108.
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tbsp minced shallot or yellow onion
1 tsp minced jalapeño or other fr esh hot chile
1 tsp peeled and grated fr esh ginger
4 tbsp/55 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece
Kosher salt
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the lime juice, vinegar ,
shallot, jalapeño, and ginger and bring to a simmer over
medium-high heat. Cook, stirring and scraping the sides of
the pan occasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula,
until the liquid is reduced to about 2 tbsp, 4 to 5 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it aroundeasily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit. Whisk in 1/4 tsp salt, then taste and
adjust with more salt or a touch more lime juice.
For a perfectly smooth sauce, strain it through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve, though it’s ﬁne to leave all the aromatics. If possible,
serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 clove garlic, minced, with the
shallot, and ﬁnish with 2 tsp chopped fr esh cilantr o. 
GRAPEFRUIT-CORIANDER BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
Grapefruit is my favorite fruit, and my perfect grapefruit
variety is a Rio Star red grapefruit from T exas, harvested in
March. I ﬁnd the end-of -season fruit intensely sweet and
perfumed, but always with the subtle, intriguing grapefruit
tickle of bitter and sour . I am using the zest, juice, and ﬂesh
of the fruit in this sauce, so it’s a real celebration of this
refreshing fruit. The small amount of ground coriander and
ginger underscores the fruit ﬂavor , and the slight anise
ﬂavor in the basil is a beautiful accent. Try this on big, fat
seared sea scallops, grilled mackerel, grilled chicken
breast, or steamed asparagus spears.
1 large grapefruit (about 1 lb/455 g), pr eferably a r ed
variety such as Rio Star
1/4 cup/60 ml white wine vinegar
1 tbsp minced shallot
6 tbsp/85 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
1/8 tsp gr ound coriander
1/8 tsp gr ound ginger
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/2 tsp fr esh lemon juice, or mor e if needed
1 tbsp ﬁnely sliced fr esh basilUsing a rasp-type grater , ﬁnely grate 1 tsp zest from the
grapefruit and set the zest aside. Cut a slice oﬀ each end of
the grapefruit to reveal the ﬂesh. Stand the grapefruit on a
ﬂat end on a work surface. Using a sharp knife, slice away
the peel, including all of the white pith, cutting from the
top to the bottom and following the contour of the fruit.
Take your time and work in wide strips. If any white pith
remains, just slice it oﬀ .
Cut out half of the grapefruit segments by holding the fruit
in one hand and cutting along both sides of each segment
to release it from the membrane, until you’ve worked your
way around half of the fruit. Chop the segments into 1/4 -
in/6-mm pieces; set aside.
Holding the unsegmented grapefruit half over a small
saucepan, squeeze the juice from it into the pan. Y ou
should have about 1/2 cup/120 ml (you can also add any
juice that has accumulated from the segments). Add the
vinegar and shallot to the pan and bring to a simmer over
medium-high heat. Cook, stirring and scraping the sides of
the pan occasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula,
until the liquid is reduced to about 2 tbsp, 6 to 8 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit.
Add the coriander , ginger , 1/4 tsp salt, a few grinds of
pepper , and the lemon juice, then gently stir in the choppedgrapefruit. T aste and adjust the seasoning with more salt if
needed. If the sauce is still very sharp, whisk in another 1/2
tbsp cold butter . If it’s ﬂat, add more lemon juice. Stir in
the basil. If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Use a mix of orange and lime juice and
segments in place of the grapefruit juice and segments. 
ORANGE-ROSEMARY BALSAMIC BUTTER
SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This sauce is so delicious that I found myself eating it with
a spoon during the testing sessions for this book, but really
it’s meant to be drizzled around a sautéed pork medallion
or seared scallop. The concentrated balsamic vinegar turns
the sauce a lovely , glossy brown, almost like a chocolate
sauce. Use a decent vinegar but not an artisanal one. I like
Lucini brand, they charge a fair price for a good-quality
balsamic vinegar to use for cooking, rather than as a
condiment.
1/4 cup/60 ml balsamic vinegar
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh orange juice
1 tsp minced shallot or yellow onion
1 fresh r osemary sprig, 4 in/10 cm long
4 to 5 tbsp very cold unsalted butter in one lar ge piece, plus
1/2 tbsp if needed
Kosher salt
In a small saucepan, combine the vinegar , orange juice,
shallot, and rosemary and bring to a simmer over medium-
high heat. Cook, stirring and scraping the sides of the panoccasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the
liquid is reduced to 3 tbsp, 3 to 5 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit.
Remove and discard the rosemary sprig (squeegee the
sauce oﬀ it with your ﬁngers so you don’t lose a drop) and
whisk in 1/4 tsp salt. T aste and adjust the seasoning with
salt if needed. If the sauce is still very sharp, whisk in
another 1/2 tbsp cold butter .
For a perfectly smooth sauce, strain it through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve. If you are okay with the shallot, serve as is. If
possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 2 tbsp ﬁnely diced r oasted r ed pepper
after adding the butter . 
APPLE CIDER–CHILE BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/4 CUP/60 ML
A little of this sauce goes a long way , which is why the
recipe yields only 1/4 cup/60 milliliters. It doubles easily ,
however , if you want to make more of it. The key is to
balance the sweet, tang, salt, and spicy heat. Y ou don’t
want the sauce to tip too far to the buttery , sweet-apple
side or it will seem like a dessert sauce. But if you want a
dessert sauce, you can have that, too, by leaving out the
shallot and chile powder and adding only a pinch of salt.
As a savory sauce, drizzle it over a fried ham steak, grilled
sausages served with braised cabbage and onions, or the
roasted Brussels sprouts on page 110. F or a rustic dessert,
drizzle it over fromage frais spread on those lovely British
cookies called wheatmeal digestive biscuits; McV itie’s
brand is especially good.
1 cup/240 ml unﬁlter ed apple cider
1 tbsp minced shallot or yellow onion
Big pinch of Espelette pepper (see ingr edient note), coarsely
ground Aleppo chile , cayenne pepper, or other chile powder,
plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus mor e if
needed
Kosher saltIn a small saucepan, combine the cider , shallot, and pepper
and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Cook,
stirring and scraping the sides of the pan occasionally with
a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the liquid is reduced
to about 2 tbsp, 15 to 20 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit.
Whisk in 1/4 tsp salt, then taste and adjust the seasoning
with more salt, pepper , or a touch more butter . For a
perfectly smooth sauce, strain it through a ﬁne-mesh sieve.
If you are okay with the shallot, serve as is. If possible,
serve right away .
INGREDIENT NOTE:  The Espelette pepper is cultivated
in the commune of Espelette in the Basque region of
southwestern France. It is a mild chile and is typically dried
and ground. Look for it in specialty food shops or from
online sources.
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.QUICK CHANGE
Use pear cider or a mix of apple cider and unsweetened
cranber ry juice (not cranber ry “cocktail”) instead of the
apple cider .
Add 1 fr esh r osemary sprig, 1 tsp balsamic vinegar, or 1
clove garlic, chopped, to the ﬁrst addition of cider . 
SAVORY TOMATO–RED WINE BUTTER
SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 2/3 CUP/165 ML
This is a big-ﬂavored butter sauce that wants to be served
with poultry or meat. I panfry hamburgers and serve them
with this sauce as though they were little steaks: no buns,
just juicy meat and a more glamorous ketchup.
1 tsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 tsp minced garlic
1 tbsp minced shallot
3 whole canned tomatoes
1 fresh r osemary sprig, 3 in/7.5 cm long
1/2 cup/120 ml fruity (but not oak y) red wine such as P inot
Noir, Syrah, or T empranillo
1/4 cup/60 ml sher ry vinegar, plus mor e if needed
1 tsp W orcestershir e sauce
1/4 tsp granulated sugar
Kosher salt
6 tbsp/85 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
In a small saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat.
Add the garlic and shallot and cook, stirring constantly ,
until beginning to soften, about 1 minute. Do not allowthem to brown. R aise the heat to medium-high and add the
tomatoes and rosemary . Smash the tomatoes with a wooden
spoon to collapse them into a pulp and then cook, stirring
constantly , until the tomatoes are thick and starting to stick
and brown on the bottom of the pan, 3 to 4 minutes.
Add the wine, vinegar , and W orcestershire sauce, bring to a
boil, and boil until the mixture is very thick and reduced to
the consistency of tomato jam, about 10 minutes. Stir in the
sugar and 1/4 tsp salt.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit.
Strain the sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve, pushing on the
tomatoes to squeeze out all of the juice. T aste and adjust
the seasoning with salt if needed. If the sauce is still very
sharp, whisk in another 1/2 tbsp cold butter . If it’s ﬂat, add
a drop or two of vinegar . If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Substitute 1 tbsp minced, seeded fr esh
hot chile for the shallot. 
SOY-GINGER BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/4 CUP/60 ML
This sauce surprised me when I ﬁrst made it. I intended to
make something fairly light, with a bright, gingery kick.
Instead, I ended up with a deep, savory , and slightly
mysterious sauce with a distinctly “meaty” ﬂavor . This is
because as the soy sauce reduces, it starts to toast a bit,
deepening its umami ﬂavors. Use a good-quality soy sauce,
such as Kikkoman brand. A t my house, we call this sauce
vegetarian gravy . We’re not actually vegetarian, so we’ll
drizzle the sauce on slices of rare ﬂank steak or leg of
lamb. It’s also delicious tossed with green vegetables such
as green beans, broccoli, or broccoli rabe.
1/4 cup/60 ml rice vinegar
1/4 cup/60 ml mirin
4 tbsp/60 ml soy sauce
1 small clove garlic, minced
2 tbsp peeled and chopped fr esh ginger (fr om 1- oz/30-g
piece)
4 tbsp/55 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
1 tsp fr esh lime juice
4 drops hot-pepper sauce such as SrirachaIn a small saucepan, combine the vinegar , mirin, 2 tbsp of
the soy sauce, the garlic, and ginger and bring to a simmer
over medium heat. Cook, stirring and scraping the sides of
the pan occasionally with a heat-resistant rubber spatula,
until the liquid is reduced to about 2 tbsp, about 10
minutes. (I simmer the mixture over a lower heat than in
my other recipes because I want to allow enough time for
the ginger to infuse into the liquids.)
Add the remaining 2 tbsp soy sauce and simmer , stirring
occasionally , until reduced to about 3 tbsp, 2 to 3 minutes
more.
Raise the heat to medium-high, add the butter , and start
stirring it around in circles with a whisk, a fork, a wooden
spoon, or anything that lets you “stab” the hunk of butter
so that you can move it around easily . The butter will start
to melt and the mixture will bubble and boil around the
edges. The melted butter should look creamy , rather than
melted and oily . Keep stirring and blending until almost all
of the butter is incorporated, then remove the pan from the
heat as you work in the last bit.
Whisk in the lime juice and hot-pepper sauce. T aste and
adjust the seasoning if needed. If the sauce is still very
sharp, whisk in another 1/2 tbsp cold butter .
Strain through a ﬁne-mesh sieve, pushing on the ginger
pieces to squeeze out all their juice. If possible, serve right
away .
STORAGE  To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in athermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/2 tsp ﬁnely minced hot r ed chile with
the ginger . 
ANCHOVY BUTTER SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1/2 CUP/120 ML
This is a sauce for anchovy lovers; the ﬂavor is quite
pronounced. But it is also a sauce that could recruit people
who are tentative about anchovies, because the lemon and
butter temper the anchovy assertiveness in a truly delicious
way.
Anchovies oxidize quickly after the can or jar is opened
(even when stored in the refrigerator), so use a fresh
supply for this recipe. This sauce is fantastic on grilled red
peppers or eggplant, as a dip for raw endive spears or
steamed asparagus or artichokes, or drizzled over thinly
sliced grilled skirt or ﬂank steak.
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1/4 cup/60 ml white wine vinegar
4 tbsp/55 g very cold unsalted butter in one piece, plus 1/2
tbsp if needed
3 to 4 olive oil-pack ed anchovy ﬁllets , ﬁnely chopped and
then mashed with a fork to a coarse paste
1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepperIn a small saucepan, combine the lemon juice and vinegar
and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Cook,
stirring and scraping the sides of the pan occasionally with
a heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the liquid is reduced
to about 2 tbsp, 4 to 5 minutes.
Add the butter and start stirring it around in circles with a
whisk, a fork, a wooden spoon, or anything that lets you
“stab” the hunk of butter so that you can move it around
easily . The butter will start to melt and the mixture will
bubble and boil around the edges. The melted butter
should look creamy , rather than melted and oily . Keep
stirring and blending until almost all of the butter is
incorporated, then remove the pan from the heat as you
work in the last bit.
Add the anchovies and stir vigorously to help them
dissolve. Whisk in the parsley , lemon zest, 1/8 tsp salt, and a
few generous grinds of pepper . Taste and adjust the
seasoning with salt and pepper if needed. If the sauce is
still very sharp, whisk in another 1/2 tbsp cold butter . If it’s
ﬂat, whisk in more lemon juice. If possible, serve right
away .
STORAGE To keep the sauce war m, hold it in the saucepan
for a few minutes. F or longer k eeping, transfer it to a bowl
set over a saucepan of hot water (the water should be no
hotter than 110°F/43°C). Y ou can also k eep the sauce in a
thermos for up to 2 hours. The sauce cannot be stor ed in
the refrigerator, as it will separate when r eheated.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped, pitted
Kalamata olive or 2 tsp black olive tapenade with the
anchovies.POTATO-TOPPED HALIBUT FILLET with
BALSAMIC BEURRE ROUGE
SERVES 4
Adding a crunchy potato topping and a drizzle of rich,
tangy sauce is an easy way to “upgrade” a plain ﬁsh ﬁllet to
ﬁrst-class status. This is a great dinner-party main dish
because much of the prep can be done ahead. Boil and chill
the potato that afternoon, but don’t grate it until it’s time
to cook or it will darken. And season the ﬁllets with the
mustard ahead, too . Make the sauce right before people
come over and keep it warm as directed in the recipe. All
that will be left to do is pat on the potato topping, bake,
and serve.
1 waxy potato, about 5 oz/140 g
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
Four 6- oz/170-g skinless halibut, salmon, or cod ﬁllets, about
1 in/ 2.5 cm thick
2 tbsp Dijon mustar d
1/2 cup/120 ml Balsamic Beurre Rouge
In a small saucepan, combine the potato with salted water
to cover by 1 in/ 2.5 cm and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce the heat to maintain a vigorous simmer and cook
until just tender when pierced with a fork, about 20
minutes. Do not cook to the point of mushiness or it will be
too hard to grate. Drain the potato in a sieve, let cool, chill,
and then peel away the skin.Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C/gas 6. Line a rimmed baking
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil.
Grate the potato on the large holes of a box grater . As you
work, don’t apply too much pressure, as you want fairly
thin shavings. Season the grated potato with salt and
pepper and toss with the melted butter .
If the ﬁsh ﬁllets are thick on one end, thin on the other , fold
the thin end under to make neat ﬁllets of uniform
thickness. Spread an equal amount of the mustard on top of
each ﬁllet and season with a little salt and pepper . Divide
the potato evenly among the ﬁllets, gently patting it on top
and pressing lightly so it sticks.
Arrange the ﬁllets on the prepared baking sheet. Bake until
the ﬁsh is just opaque at the center when tested with a
knife and the potatoes are golden brown and crisp around
the edges, 15 to 18 minutes. If the ﬁsh is almost cooked but
the potato topping isn’t crisp, switch the oven to broil for
the last few minutes.
Transfer the ﬁllets to warmed individual plates and spoon a
ribbon of the beurre rouge around each ﬁllet. Serve right
away .
COCONUT-SESAME CHICKEN BREASTS
with JALAPEÑO-LIME-GINGER BUTTER
SAUCE
SERVES 4Sometimes it’s nice to have someone else do the cooking,
even in your own cookbook, so I invited my friend, food
writer and awesome recipe developer , Matthew Card to
think of something excellent to go with this sauce. He
certainly hit the mark with this quick and easy crunchy-on-
the-outside, tender-on-the-inside chicken dish.
Panko, crisp Japanese-style bread crumbs, is stocked in the
Asian-food aisle of many supermarkets. The crust works
equally well on thick -cut halibut ﬁllets. K eep in mind that
nowadays some chicken breast halves are enormous. I have
bought skinless, boneless half breasts that weigh 12
ounces/340 grams each. This recipe calls for 6-ounce/170-
gram breast halves. If you can only ﬁnd larger ones, cut
them in half .
1/2 cup/65 g all-purpose ﬂour
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
2 large eggs
11/2 tsp hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
1/2 cup/35 g pank o
1/2 cup/50 g unsweetened shr edded dried coconut
2 tbsp sesame seeds
Finely grated zest of 1 lime
4 small skinless, boneless chick en br east halves, about 6
oz/170 g each, patted dry
3 tbsp unsalted butter
5 tbsp/75 ml canola or other neutral vegetable oil
1/3 cup/75 ml Jalapeño -Lime- Ginger Butter Sauce
Have ready three small, shallow bowls. In the ﬁrst bowl,
season the ﬂour generously with salt and pepper . In the
second bowl, whisk together the eggs and hot-pepper sauce
until blended. In the third bowl, stir together the breadcrumbs, coconut, sesame seeds, and lime zest and season
with salt and pepper .
Working with one piece of chicken at a time, pound the
thicker end lightly with a meat mallet or a heavy frying pan
to create a uniform thickness. Using tongs, dip the chicken
piece into the ﬂour mixture, coating it thoroughly and then
shaking it to remove the excess ﬂour . Next, dip it into the
egg mixture, allowing the excess to drip back into the bowl.
Finally , lay the coated chicken in the coconut mixture, turn
to coat thickly and evenly , and press ﬁrmly to ensure the
coconut layer adheres to the chicken. Transfer to a rack.
Repeat with the remaining chicken. Let the chicken sit for
10 minutes before cooking so the crust ﬁrms up.
In a large frying pan, melt the butter with the oil over
medium-high heat. A fter the butter foams and the bubbles
subside and the oil is shimmering, place the chicken pieces
in the pan, arranging them so they are not touching one
another . Cook until well browned on the ﬁrst side, 3 to 5
minutes. Using tongs, ﬂip and cook the second side until
browned and the chicken is just cooked through, about 2
minutes longer .
Transfer the chicken pieces to a clean rack and blot with
paper towels. Serve right away with the butter sauce.
PORK TENDERLOIN MEDALLIONS with
WILTED SPINACH and ORANGE-
ROSEMARY BALSAMIC BUTTER SAUCE
SERVES 2Pork tenderloin is one of the easiest meats to prepare and
cook, and its sweet ﬂavor and tender texture are
appreciated by nearly all meat eaters. Choose good-quality
natural pork, not one that’s been “enhanced” with a
ﬂavored brine—I hate the ﬂavor and texture of those.
In this dish, I like the contrast of the slightly earthy , tannic
greens with the mild meat and fruity-tangy-herbal sauce.
You could make this same dish with turkey cutlets in place
of the pork or with Swiss chard instead of spinach. If you
opt for the chard, allow a bit more time for it to cook.
One 14-to 16- oz/400-to 455-g pork tenderloin
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
2 tbsp olive oil
10 oz/300 g spinach, lar ge stems r emoved, washed well,
with water still clinging to leaves
1/2 cup/120 ml Orange-R osemary Balsamic Butter Sauce
With a very sharp knife, trim away any patches of silver
skin and big pieces of fat from the tenderloin. Cut into
slices 1 in/2.5 cm thick. Flatten each slice lightly with the
heel of your hand. Season both sides of each slice
generously with salt and pepper .
Heat a large frying pan over medium-high, add 1 tbsp of
the oil, and then add the pork. The pork should sizzle as
soon as it touches the pan. If it doesn’t, hold oﬀ for another
minute to let the pan get properly hot. If all of the pork will
not ﬁt in a single layer without crowding, use two pans or
cook it in batches. Sauté the pork until nicely browned on
the ﬁrst side, 2 to 3 minutes. Flip and ﬁnish cooking until
browned on the second side and still pink in the center ,
another 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a plate, tent with
aluminum foil, and let rest while you cook the spinach.If there’s a lot of fat in the pan, pour it oﬀ , but don’t rinse
the pan. Drop the spinach into the pan and quickly toss it
around to encourage it to wilt. Season with a bit of salt and
pepper and keep cooking until it’s tender and most of the
liquid has evaporated oﬀ , 30 seconds to 1 minute. Some
spinach gives oﬀ a lot of water , so if it’s getting tender but
is still quite wet, just pour oﬀ the excess water from the
pan, pressing on the spinach with tongs or a spoon to
release even more. T aste and adjust the seasoning.
Arrange a nice pile of wilted spinach on each warmed plate
and top with the pork medallions. P our any accumulated
pork juices over the pork and spinach, then drizzle a thick
ribbon of the butter sauce around the base of the spinach,
reserving a little of the sauce to pass at the table. Serve
right away .
BRUSSELS SPROUTS with TOASTED
WALNUTS and APPLE CIDER–CHILE
BUTTER SAUCE
SERVES 4
A big platter of these Brussels sprouts makes a delicious
centerpiece for a fall dinner party . If you have a pork roast
or a roasted chicken to serve with them, all the better , but
the vegetables themselves may just steal the spotlight.1 lb/455 g medium Brussels spr outs, trimmed and halved or
quarter ed lengthwise if lar ge
3 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
1/2 tsp chopped fr esh r osemary
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/4 cup/30 g coarsely chopped walnuts
1/4 cup/60 ml Apple Cider–Chile Butter Sauce
Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C/gas 6.
In a large bowl, toss the sprouts with the olive oil, and
rosemary and season with salt and pepper . Spread them in
a single layer on a large rimmed baking sheet. Roast until
just tender , 15 to 18 minutes. The single leaves that fall
away should be dark and crisp, and the sprouts should be
tender when pierced with a knife but not mushy . Take a
bite, to be sure.
During the last 5 minutes or so of roasting, spread the
walnuts on a small baking sheet or pie pan and slide them
into the oven. Cook until lightly toasted, about 5 minutes.
Pour onto a plate and reserve.Mound the sprouts on a platter and drizzle the butter sauce
over the top. Start with a small amount; you can always
pass more at the table. Sprinkle the walnuts over the top
and serve right away .CREAM SAUCES
WHEN YOU HEAR CREAM SAUCE, YOU MA Y THINK
“NOT FOR ME ANYMORE, THANKS ,” BELIEVING THA T
ALL CREAM SAUCES ARE CREAMY , RICH, AND HEA VY—
AND OLD -FASHIONED .
But I am using cream sauce as an umbrella term for a
range of sauces that includes everything from a workaday
béchamel made mostly with milk to a sauce for pasta that
uses broth as the base with a ﬁnish of cream to a full-on
heavy cream reduced to a luxurious rivulet of dairy
goodness—many styles, many levels of richness, many
diﬀerent uses.
A tiny but perfect ﬁlet mignon draped with a porcini cream
sauce, tender egg pappardelle cloaked in a lemony
Parmesan sauce tossed with spring vegetables, or slices of
grilled pork tenderloin drizzled with a bracing mustardy
cream sauce—these are all dishes we love to eat from time
to time, even in today’s olive oil–worshipping cuisine. And
although it is true that all cream sauces carry a generous
amount of fat and calories, a well-made sauce enhanced
with sweet cream or nutty-tangy crème fraîche is worth the
splurge.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
In this chapter , I’m lumping together some classic French
sauces as well as sauces that don’t ﬁt a traditional mold but
rather are just made with methods that I’ve developed. I’vedivided all of the sauces into two types: those that get their
body by thickening with a roux and those that are
thickened by boiling down the cream and other liquids to
reduce and concentrate them.
A roux (pronounced roo) is made by whisking together ﬂour
and fat, usually butter , to make a smooth paste into which
you whisk a liquid. F or a béchamel (also called a white
sauce), the liquid is either milk or milk and cream. Some
versions include onion, clove, bay leaf , and black
peppercorns for ﬂavoring. Every former home-economics
teacher is probably conﬁdent that he or she knows the
correct way to make the sauce, but in the end, all of the
sauces are essentially the same.
A béchamel is pleasingly bland—if you can imagine such a
thing—with a creamy texture but a light ﬂavor . Cooks in the
past used it as a stand-alone sauce, as witnessed by my
mother’s 1942 F annie F armer cookbook. The book had
many versions of white sauce, including one in which you
boil “oyster crabs” to add some ﬂavor . (I learned through a
1913 New Y ork Times article that oyster crabs are tiny
crabs that live inside an oyster , a delicacy that was rare a
century ago and, as far as I know , is nonexistent today .)
Today, béchamel is like a helping verb: it’s the sauce that
lets you build a cheese souﬄé, gratin of greens, or classic
lasagna. Y our goal when making it is to avoid lumps; to
cook both the roux and the sauce long enough to develop
some nice nutty ﬂavors, rather than the taste of raw ﬂour
and milk; and to balance the seasoning, accomplished by
tasting and adjusting.
Velouté sauce, a cousin of béchamel, also starts with a
roux, but it calls for broth as the primary liquid. Like
béchamel, velouté is not typically served as is, anymore.Instead, it is a binder for potpie and crepe ﬁllings and for
the base of luxurious puréed vegetable soups.
In the non–roux -thickened category , you have lighter cream
sauces and not-so-light versions. The lighter specimens are
the most versatile, complex, and fun to make. These are
sauces in which you lay down layers of ﬂavor by
sequentially reducing liquids. F or example, you might start
with 1/2 cup/120 milliliters white wine that you cook down
to just a tablespoon or two; that produces a ﬂavor nugget
of acidity and fruitiness. Then you add chicken broth, which
you reduce by about three-fourths. The broth dissolves the
wine glaze, becomes concentrated and savory , and starts to
develop some body , especially if you’re using homemade
broth that contains a lot of collagen and other natural
thickeners.
Pay attention to the “tide rings” of reduced broth that
develop along the sides of the pan as the broth evaporates.
They become more fully reduced and sort of “toasted,”
creating even more complex ﬂavors, so be sure to scrape
them into the sauce as they form. Some chefs will
deliberately provoke this intensiﬁed reduction by adding
broth to the pan, reducing it way down, adding more broth,
and reducing again (at school, the chefs called this
remouiller , or “remoistening”).
The ﬁnal layer is the cream or crème fraîche, which you
also reduce so it gains viscosity and ﬂavor intensity . Along
the way , you may add other ingredients, such as a mirepoix
(chopped aromatic vegetables), herbs and spices,
mushrooms, and mustards.
The result of all this reduction (which often takes only
minutes, depending on the volume) is a sauce that iscreamy and beautiful feeling on your tongue, with subtle,
complex ﬂavors.
The richest and creamiest of my cream sauces is just that:
cream that has been reduced along with ﬂavorings until it
is quite thick and clings languorously to whatever it’s
poured over . This is indeed an indulgence, but it is also
quick and easy to make and great for improvising.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
With roux -thickened sauces, the big threat is lumps.
Avoiding them is a matter of adding the liquid fast enough
to keep up with the thickening power of the roux. If you
add the liquid too slowly , the sauce in the pan gets so thick
that it is hard to incorporate more liquid without lumps
forming. But adding the liquid all at once makes it hard to
blend smoothly , too.
I get the most control if I pull the pan from the heat once
the roux is cooked, add about one-fourth of my liquid,
whisk like mad, and then return the sauce to the heat, add
the rest, and continuing whisking as the mixture comes to a
simmer and thickens.
If you do get lumps, you can usually whisk them away or
smash them into submission with a wooden spoon or heat-
resistant rubber spatula. But for stubborn lumps, you will
need to push your sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve.
With the light cream sauces, the only threat is that the
ﬂavors are out of balance. T ake care not to use too much
wine, or a wine with lots of oak or tannin, because whenthe sauce is reduced, those ﬂavors get strong and
unpleasant and you can actually feel the tannins on your
tongue. My basic white wine for cooking is an unoaked
Sauvignon Blanc, though not a super-grapefruity one such
as those from the Marlborough region of New Zealand. F or
a red, I like a Syrah from southern France. Whatever wine
you use, be sure to reduce it thoroughly . Splashing some
wine into a sauce may feel joie de vivre-ish, but you’ll only
give your sauce an unwelcome je ne sais quoi of raw
alcohol and acid.
The ultra cream sauce is also mostly trouble free, though if
you overreduce the cream, the water can get out of whack
with the butterfat and your sauce can separate. If you see
that happening—the ﬁrst sign is little beads of butterfat
appearing around the edges of the pan —just whisk in a
few drops of water or broth and perhaps a touch of fresh
cream.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
I can’t tell you an average amount of béchamel or velouté,
since those will most likely be components of any number
of other recipes. An average serving of lighter cream sauce
might be cup/80 milliliters per person. The richest sauces
are best in modest portions of 1/4 cup/60 milliliters.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
My preferred pan is a heavy , stainless steel–lined copper
Windsor pan, which has sloped sides. (The same pan I
describe on page 92 for making butter sauces.) The copper
doesn’t really matter , other than for emotional reasons.What’s important is the weight and heat-transferring
capacity of the pan. Copper and aluminum, such as the
aluminum core in three-ply cookware, are good choices. I
would not use a tin-lined copper pan, however , because the
tin wears out quickly , leaving exposed copper that can
develop a mildly toxic oxide, and the tin can react with the
stainless tines of a whisk and turn your sauces a pale gray .
The sloped sides are important because they allow for
maximum evaporation—reduction—even with a small
amount of liquid. Plus, they make it easy for your whisk,
wooden spoon, or (my favorite) heat-resistant rubber
spatula to reach the angles at the bottom of the pan.
A ﬁne-mesh sieve is useful for losing lumps but also for
straining out aromatics, herbs, and the like. A whisk is
important too, especially for the roux -based sauces. May I
say boo-yah to the inventor of the whisk, whoever he or she
may be?
STORAGE
Cream sauces can be stored in an airtight container in the
refrigerator , though I ﬁnd that the ﬂour-thickened ones get
a touch tired after 3 or 4 days. I think cream sauces are
meant to be made and used for a speciﬁc purpose, unlike a
vinaigrette or caramel sauce, which can stand by in the
fridge for all sorts of impromptu uses. All of these sauces
can be reheated using very gentle heat, whether stove top
or microwave. 
ACTUALLY TASTY BÉCHAMEL SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
Béchamel is a home-economics-class sauce. Y ou learn to
make it, but you never conceive of using it again. But a
good béchamel has its place in the world, though mostly as
a supporting player rather than a star . You can’t make a
cheese souﬄé without béchamel, some delicious lasagnas
are made moist with béchamel (called besciamella in
Italian), and real mac and cheese is all about the sauce,
which starts with béchamel. Many béchamels are made
with only milk, but I’m adding 30 percent cream because I
like the depth of ﬂavor it imparts. Don’t be tempted to add
a lot of nutmeg. It’s fun to grate, but it can call unwanted
attention to itself .
2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp all-purpose ﬂour
11/4 cups/300 ml whole milk
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
1/4 tsp k osher salt
Freshly gr ound black pepper
4 or 5 scrapes of fr esh nutmeg
In a medium saucepan, combine the butter and ﬂour over
medium-high heat and whisk to blend as the butter melts.Cook, whisking a lot, for about 1 minute. This will give the
ﬂour a nutty , rather than ﬂoury , ﬂavor .
Pull the pan oﬀ the heat and pour in about 1/4 cup/60 ml of
the milk. Whisk like crazy to form a smooth paste, then
whisk in the remaining 1 cup/240 ml milk and the cream.
Return the pan to medium-high heat and bring to a simmer ,
whisking frequently and making sure to get into the angles
of the pan where the thick roux can accumulate.
Simmer , giving the sauce an occasional whisk, until smooth
and glossy and no taste of ﬂour remains, 8 to 10 minutes.
As it simmers, be sure to scrape down the sides of the pan
where the sauce builds up and whisk into the sauce;
otherwise you will end up with lumps.
Add the salt, several grinds of pepper , and the nutmeg,
then taste and adjust the seasoning. Serve right away or
keep warm over low heat.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 yellow onion and 1 fr esh thyme
sprig af ter whisking in the milk and cr eam. R emove befor e
serving. 
ALMOST CREAMLESS CREAMY VELOUTÉ
SAUCE
MAKES 3 CUPS/720 ML
A traditional velouté sauce is broth thickened with a roux,
but the texture is so smooth and velvety (which is what
velouté  means) that it’s hard to believe that it doesn’t
contain cream. Because the sauce is all about the broth,
use a homemade one, or buy a good-quality broth from a
gourmet store. Everyday canned broth won’t cut it for this
recipe. Choose the type—chicken, ﬁsh, or veal—depending
on what you intend to do with the sauce, though I ﬁnd that
chicken broth is all-purpose and will even complement
seafood. I like to add a good splash of cream at the end to
round out the ﬂavors.
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter
1/4 cup/30 g all-purpose ﬂour
4 cups/960 ml homemade or stor e-bought good-quality
reduced-sodium chick en, ﬁsh, or veal br oth
1/4 cup/60 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a medium saucepan, combine the butter and ﬂour over
medium-high heat and whisk to blend as the butter melts.Cook, whisking a lot, for about 1 minute. This will give the
ﬂour a nutty , rather than ﬂoury , ﬂavor .
Pull the pan oﬀ the heat and pour in about 1/4 cup/60 ml of
the broth. Whisk like crazy until smooth, then whisk in the
remaining 3 3/4 cups/900 ml broth.
Return the pan to medium-high heat and bring to a simmer ,
whisking frequently and making sure to get into the angles
of the pan where the thick roux can accumulate. Simmer ,
giving the sauce an occasional whisk, until reduced by
about one-quarter and the sauce is smooth and glossy , 15 to
20 minutes. As it simmers, be sure to scrape down the
sides of the pan where the sauce builds up and whisk into
the sauce; otherwise you will end up with lumps.
Add the cream and simmer for 1 minute more, then season
with salt and pepper . Serve right away or keep warm over
low heat.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 2 tbsp dry sher ry with the cr eam and
simmer for an e xtra 2 or 3 minutes to cook oﬀ the alcohol. 
SHARP CHEDDAR SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS/720 ML SA UCE OR 2 1/3
CUPS/560 ML SOUFFLÉ BASE
This sauce, which is essentially a Mornay sauce, is either
comforting or sophisticated, depending on how you use it.
It’s the sauce for mac and cheese—comfort!—or the base of
a souﬄé—sophistication! I also like it on steamed
cauliﬂower and broccoli for something in between. F eel
free to play with diﬀerent types of cheese, too . This recipe
is a blank slate.
3 tbsp unsalted butter
3 tbsp all-purpose ﬂour
21/4 cups/540 ml whole milk if making a sauce, or 1 1/2
cups/360 ml if making a souﬄé base
1 cup/115 g lightly pack ed grated e xtra-sharp aged Cheddar
cheese
1/4 cup/30 g ﬁnely grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1/8 tsp fr eshly gr ound black pepper
Pinch of cayenne pepper
Pinch of fr eshly grated or gr ound nutmeg
In a medium saucepan, combine the butter and ﬂour over
medium-high heat and whisk to blend as the butter melts.Cook, whisking a lot, for about 1 minute. This will give the
ﬂour a nutty , rather than ﬂoury , ﬂavor .
Pull the pan oﬀ the heat and pour in about 1/4 cup/60 ml of
the milk. Whisk like crazy to form a smooth paste, then
whisk in the remaining milk (2 cups/480 ml if making a
sauce or 1 1/4 cups/300 ml if make a souﬄé base).
Return the pan to medium-high heat and bring to a simmer ,
whisking frequently and making sure to get into the angles
of the pan where the thick roux can accumulate. Simmer ,
whisking often, until smooth and glossy and no taste of
ﬂour remains, 8 to 10 minutes. As it simmers, be sure to
scrape down the sides of the pan where the sauce builds up
and whisk it into the sauce; otherwise you will end up with
lumps.
Turn the heat to low , add the cheeses, and whisk until
completely melted. Add the salt, black pepper , cayenne,
and nutmeg, then taste and adjust the seasoning. Serve
right away .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
days. R eheat very gently to ensur e the sauce doesn’t
separate. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Use another cheese in place of the
Cheddar . I like aged Gouda, smok ed Cheddar, or R oquefort
or other blue. If using a blue or other str ong-ﬂavor ed
cheese, start with half the quantity listed and add mor e to
taste. But for all of the variations, k eep the P armigiano -
Reggiano, which boosts the overall intensity level. 
LIGHT, LEMONY CREAM SAUCE
MAKES 3/4 CUP/180 ML
This sauce is all about the layers of ﬂavor that you create
by reduction, so take your time to simmer the liquids down
to concentrate their ﬂavors. Once you get the basic
architecture of this sauce, you can improvise like crazy—a
little saﬀron, some herbs, diﬀerent cheese—and you can
use it on many diﬀerent pastas, on light ﬁsh dishes, and on
green vegetables such as asparagus and broccoli.
1/2 tsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp minced shallot or sliced gr een onion (white and light
green parts only)
1/2 cup/120 ml dry (but not oak y) white wine
13/4 cups/420 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth
1 fresh thyme sprig (optional)
3/4 cup/180 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1 tbsp grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a medium, heavy sauté pan, melt the butter over
medium-high heat. Add the shallot and cook, stirring
occasionally , until soft and fragrant but not browned, about1 minute. Add the wine, raise the heat to high, and boil
until reduced to about 1 tbsp, 4 to 6 minutes. Add the broth
and the thyme (if using) and boil until reduced to about 1/2
cup/120 ml, another 8 to 10 minutes.
Now add the cream and continue to boil until reduced to
about 3/4 cup/180 ml, 9 to 12 minutes longer . Remove the
pan from the heat, remove the thyme, and add the lemon
zest and cheese. Season with salt and pepper . (If using
canned broth, you may not need much or any salt.) Serve
right away .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 cup/7 g ﬁnely chopped fr esh herb
such as tar ragon, dill, or ﬂat-leaf parsley, or a mixtur e, when
you add the lemon zest and cheese. 
DIJON-COGNAC CREAM SAUCE
MAKES 3/4 CUP/180 ML
This is a classic sauce that wants a classic accompaniment.
A ﬁlet mignon or strip steak is my ﬁrst choice, but I think
we could make a new classic by pairing the sauce with
halibut or cod. Y ou can make this sauce in the same pan
that you cook the main ingredient in, capturing the cooking
juices, but making the sauce separately eliminates some of
the timing juggling.
2 tsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp minced shallot or yellow onion
1/3 cup/75 ml Cognac or brandy
3/4 cup/180 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth
3/4 cup/180 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
3 fresh sage leaves
1 fresh thyme sprig
2 tbsp whole-grain Dijon mustar d (moutar de à l’ancienne)
1/2 tsp lemon juice
1 tbsp unsalted butter (optional)
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a medium, heavy saucepan, melt the butter over
medium-high heat. Add the shallot and cook until soft andfragrant but not browned, about 1 minute. Add the Cognac,
raise the heat to high, and simmer until reduced to about 1
tbsp, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the broth and boil until reduced
to about 1/4 cup/60 ml, 4 to 5 minutes.
Now add the cream, sage leaves, and thyme; reduce the
heat to medum-high; and continue to boil, whisking
frequently , until you have about 3/4 cup/180 ml, 9 to 11
minutes longer . Strain the sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve
to remove the herbs and the shallot, or simply pluck out the
herbs and leave the shallot in. Return the sauce to the pan
over low heat and whisk in the mustard, lemon juice, and
the butter (if using). Season well with salt and pepper . (If
using canned broth, you may not need much or any salt.)
Serve right away .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 2 tbsp drained brined gr een
pepper corns with the mustar d. 
SPICY SAFFRON–RED PEPPER CREAM
SAUCE
MAKES 1 CUP/240 ML
The French pair saﬀron and seafood beautifully in a variety
of dishes, such as bouillabaisse and soupe de poissons, and
I’m doing it here in a sauce that’s fantastic with seafood
and pasta. I call for a mix of chicken or turkey broth and
ﬁsh stock or bottled clam juice, but if you have good
homemade ﬁsh stock, use only that. Bottled clam juice adds
a briny ocean ﬂavor , but it can be salty , so take special care
to taste before your ﬁnal seasoning—as you should with
every dish.
2 tsp olive oil
1 cup/160 g ﬁnely chopped r ed bell pepper
1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh hot chile such as jalapeño
1 clove garlic, minced
Medium pinch of saﬀr on thr eads (about 12 thr eads)
1/2 cup/120 ml dry (but not oak y) white wine
1/2 cup/120 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth
1/2 cup/120 ml ﬁsh stock or bottled clam juice
1 fresh r osemary sprig
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
2 tsp fr esh lemon juice
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zestKosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
In a medium, heavy sauté pan, heat the oil over medium
heat. Add the bell pepper and chile, cover the pan, reduce
the heat to low , and cook, stirring occasionally , until very
soft, fragrant, and lightly browned, 15 to 20 minutes. Add
the garlic and cook for 1 minute longer . Add the saﬀron and
cook, stirring frequently , for about 30 seconds. P our in the
wine, raise the heat to high, and simmer until the liquid has
reduced to about 1 tbsp (the bell pepper and other solids
will take up more volume than 1 tbsp, of course), 4 to 6
minutes. Add the broth, ﬁsh stock, and rosemary and boil
until reduced to about 1/2 cup/120 ml liquid, 8 to 10
minutes.
Now add the cream and continue to boil until reduced to
about 1 cup/240 ml liquid, 9 to 12 minutes longer . Strain
the sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve, pressing on the solids
to extract all of the juice. Return the sauce to the pan over
low heat and add the lemon juice and zest; heat until quite
warm. Season with salt, pepper , and hot-pepper sauce. (If
using canned broth and/or clam juice, you may not need
much or any salt.) Serve right away .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 2 tbsp pastis or other anise-ﬂavor ed
liqueur with the white wine and 1/2 cup/20 g ﬁnely sliced
fresh basil with the lemon zest. 
CHEATER’S CARBONARA SAUCE
MAKES A SCANT 1 CUP/240 ML
True spaghetti carbonara is one of those alchemical dishes
in which simple ingredients come together in a perfect
moment of harmony and lusciousness—wonderful to eat but
not that easy to pull oﬀ . Here, I’m referencing the ﬂavors in
a carbonara—pancetta or guanciale (two forms of cured
pork related to bacon but not smoked), fresh eggs,
pecorino, and freshly cracked black pepper—but I’m
uniting them all with cream, which allows me to make an
actual sauce that can wait patiently until I’m ready to mix it
with the pasta. This sauce is also good on steamed
asparagus or sautéed chicken breasts, or both, and the
recipe is easily doubled.
1 oz/30 g pancetta, diced
2 tsp unsalted butter
1 clove garlic, minced
1/8 tsp r ed pepper ﬂak es
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
1 egg yolk
1 tbsp water
1/4 cup/30 g grated pecorino r omano cheese
1/4 cup/30 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepperIn a medium saucepan, combine the pancetta, butter ,
garlic, and red pepper ﬂakes over medium heat and cook
until the pancetta has rendered its fat and is lightly
browned around the edges, 4 to 6 minutes. Add the cream,
bring to a simmer , and cook until slightly reduced, about 1
minute longer .
In a small bowl, whisk together the egg yolk and water
until blended. Ladle in a few spoonfuls of the sauce and
whisk immediately so the yolk doesn’t coagulate. Pull the
sauce oﬀ the heat and whisk the yolk mixture into it, along
with both cheeses. Return the pan to very low heat and
cook, stirring occasionally , until slightly thickened, 2 to 3
minutes. T aste and season generously with salt and black
pepper . Keep warm until ready to serve.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
days. R eheat very gently so the egg yolk doesn’t cur dle. The
sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Use pr osciuttoinstead of pancetta and
increase the butter to 1 tbsp. 
WILD MUSHROOM CREAM SAUCE
MAKES 3/4 CUP/180 ML
This sauce is lovely on poached chicken breasts served with
rice and a green vegetable, a meal that recalls old-
fashioned hotel restaurant food. It’s also beautiful with veal
meatballs. I usually strain the sauce, but it’s luscious with
the mushrooms left in, too .
1/2 oz/15 g dried por cini, mor els, or other ﬂavorful wild
mushr ooms
1 cup/240 ml hot water
2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp minced shallot
1/4 cup/40 g ﬁnely chopped celery
4 oz/115 g fr esh cr emini mushr ooms, trimmed and ﬁnely
chopped
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/3 cup/160 ml dry white wine
1/2 cup/120 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice
1 tbsp ﬁnely grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese (optional)
In a small bowl, combine the dried mushrooms and the hot
water and soak until the mushrooms are soft, about 1 hour .Scoop them out, leaving any grit in the bottom of the bowl.
Chop the mushrooms and set aside
In a medium, heavy saucepan, melt the butter over
medium-high heat. Add the shallot and celery and cook,
stirring frequently , until soft but not browned, 2 to 3
minutes. Add the cremini and rehydrated mushrooms,
season lightly with salt, and cook, stirring and scraping the
pan frequently , until the mushrooms give oﬀ most of their
liquid and the liquid has evaporated, 4 to 6 minutes. The
mushrooms should smell very mushroomy and be getting
nicely browned.
Add the white wine and stir to dissolve any brown bits on
the pan bottom. R aise the heat to high and simmer until
reduced to about 1 tbsp, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the broth and
boil until reduced to about 1 tbsp, 4 to 6 minutes.
Now add the cream and simmer over medium-high heat
until thick enough to coat the back of a spoon, 2 to 4
minutes longer . Take the pan from the heat and strain the
sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve, pushing on the
mushrooms to extract all of the juices. Return the sauce to
the pan over low heat and add the lemon juice. Heat until
quite warm. Season with salt and pepper . (If using canned
broth, you may not need much or any salt.) If you want to
give the sauce one more boost of savoriness, stir in the
Parmigiano-Reggiano . Keep warm until ready to serve.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 4
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tsp Hungarian sweet paprik a and 2
tbsp chopped fr esh dill to the sauce during the ﬁnal heating.PERFECT CHEESE SOUFFLÉ
SERVES 4 TO 6
I love the fact that a lot of people
think souﬄés are temperamental,
slightly risky dishes to make,
because they aren’t, of course,
but I want to keep the mystique
going! The most critical part of
making a souﬄé is to make sure
that not even a speck of yolk gets
into the whites when you
separate the eggs. Souﬄés can
even be prepped hours ahead and
baked at the last minute (ready
the base completely , then whip
the egg whites and fold them in
just before the whole thing goes in the oven), which is
fortunate because they make an unexpected and splendid
ﬁrst course for a dinner party .
I supercharge this souﬄé with an amount of cheese beyond
what a French cook might add, but I like the way it tastes,
and if you’re lucky enough to have leftovers, they’re
scrumptious at room temperature with a green salad.
Unsalted butter for the souﬄé mold
21/3 cups/560 ml Sharp Cheddar Sauce  made with 1 1/2
cups/360 ml whole milk
1/2 cup/55 g shr edded e xtra-sharp aged Cheddar cheese
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr oundblack pepper
6 large eggs, separatedHeat the oven to 375°F/190°C/gas 5. Generously butter the
bottom and sides of an 8-cup/2-L souﬄé mold or other tall-
sided baking dish.
In a medium saucepan, gently warm the sauce over
medium heat. Add the cheese and stir until melted. T aste
the sauce for seasoning and add salt and pepper if needed.
The sauce should be highly seasoned and very cheesy to
stand up to the bland eggs. T ake the pan from the heat, stir
the egg yolks into the sauce until blended and set aside.
Using a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or a
large bowl and a handheld electric mixer , whip the egg
whites, slowly at ﬁrst until they are foamy and then
increase the speed to high. Continue to whip until the
whites are thick and pillowy and deﬁnite—though still soft
and droopy—peaks form.
Put a big scoop of whites into the cheese sauce and
carefully fold the two together with a rubber spatula.
Continue adding whites and folding them into the sauce,
scooping from the bottom of the pan and gently rolling the
mixtures together to preserve as much volume as possible,
until all of the whites are added. Don’t worry about
blending every last streak of white. Gently pour the souﬄé
batter into the prepared mold and put it in the hot oven.
Bake the souﬄé until it is very high, deep golden brown on
the top, and still moves slightly when you shake the mold
but doesn’t seem liquidy inside, 22 to 30 minutes. Y ou can
double-check by inserting a thin-bladed knife into the
center of the souﬄé; if the knife comes out with liquid
batter on it, keep cooking. If you want to show the souﬄé
oﬀ, carry it to the table quickly , because it will deﬂate
slightly as it cools. The ﬂavor is better when it’s not too
hot.CLASSIC MACARONI and CHEESE with
CRISP CRUMB TOPPING
SERVES 3 TO 4
No innovation here, just a great mac and cheese. Even
though the dish is a major comfort food, it shouldn’t be
bland, so I use a good sharp Cheddar and a booster of
Parmigiano-Reggiano . The crumb topping also keeps things
interesting; you could add 1/2 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves
to the crumbs if you wanted to get fancy , and, of course,
the pasta will always welcome some bits of ham or sausage
or a handful of steamed broccoli ﬂorets.
3 cups/720 ml Sharp Cheddar Sauce
1/2 cup/55 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese
1 cup/55 g coarse fr esh br ead crumbs
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
10 oz/280 g elbow macar oni or other short pasta
2 tbsp k osher salt
Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C/gas 6. Bring a large pot of
water to a boil.
While the water is heating, in a medium saucepan, gently
heat the sauce over low heat. Add the cheese and stir until
melted. K eep warm. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs
with the butter and set aside.
Add the macaroni and salt to the boiling water , stir, and
cook until al dente, according to the package instructions.
Drain well, return the macaroni to the pot, add the sauce,and toss to coat evenly . Pour the sauced macaroni into an 8-
in/20-cm square baking dish. Sprinkle evenly with the
crumbs.
Bake until the surface is browned and bubbling, about 20
minutes. Let rest for about 15 minutes before serving.
PASTA with SPRING VEGETABLES in
LIGHT, LEMONY CREAM SAUCE
SERVES 4 AS A FIRST COURSE OR 2 AS A MAIN COURSE
A handful of dishes make up my core repertoire—the ones I
can make in my sleep, which are ﬂexible enough to deal
with whatever’s in the fridge or garden, and are endlessly
satisfying. This pasta is one of those dishes. I call for spring
vegetables here, but you can use whatever you like, as long
as the vegetables aren’t too watery , such as tomatoes. And
here’s a case where the trick of ﬁnishing the pasta with a
bit of cooking water is crucial—the starchy water emulsiﬁes
with the added cheese to give the dish the right amount of
sloppy , but not gloppy , creaminess, so please don’t skip it.
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
2 car rots, peeled and cut into slices 1/8 in/3 mm thick
1/2 fennel bulb, trimmed and cutinto 1/4 -in/6-mm dice
12 asparagus spears, woody ends snapped oﬀ and cut into
1-in/2.5-cm lengths
1 cup/145 g shelled fr esh or fr ozen English peas (fr om about
1 lb/455 g in the pod)
8 oz/225 g dried pasta such as penne, linguine, or farfalle3/4 cup/180 ml Light, L emony Cream Sauce , heated
1 cup/115 g grated P armigiano -Reggiano cheese, plus mor e
for serving (optional)
1 tbsp chopped fr esh mild-ﬂavor ed herb such as parsley,
dill, mint, tar ragon, or basil
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat and add
2 tbsp salt. Have ready a sieve or a large slotted spoon.
Add the carrots, fennel, and asparagus to the boiling water
and boil for 1 minute. Add the peas and boil for 1 minute
longer . Scoop out all of the vegetables with the sieve or
spoon, shake oﬀ the water , and put them in a bowl. Set
aside and keep warm.
Let the water come back to a boil, add the pasta, and cook
until al dente, according to the package instructions. Just
before the pasta is ready , scoop out about 1 cup/240 ml of
the cooking water and set aside. Drain the pasta well and
return it to the pot.
Pour in the sauce, add the vegetables and the cheese, and
toss well, coating the pasta evenly and melting the cheese.
Let the pasta sit for a minute, so it can absorb the liquid. It
should be fairly liquidy at ﬁrst, but as it sits, it will ﬁrm up,
so check the consistency again just before serving and add
a few spoonfuls of the reserved cooking water to get the
consistency correct. Finally , toss in the herb and season
with salt and pepper . Serve right away and pass more
cheese at the table, if you like.
SAUTÉED CALVES’ LIVER with CRISPY
SHALLOTS, MASHED POTATOES, and
DIJON-COGNAC CREAM SAUCESERVES 2
Liver doesn’t win may popularity contests, but for those of
us who like it, this is a wonderful way to enjoy its deep
ﬂavor and tender but dense texture. The slight mustard
bite of the sauce is a good foil for the liver , and the crispy
shallots are my nod to the more traditional fried onions.
Warning: The shallots make a great snack, so you might
want to make a double batch of them. Do your best to cut
them as evenly as possible so that you don’t have thick and
thin pieces in the same batch, which would cook unevenly .
SHALL OTS
About 1 1/2 cups/360 ml vegetable oil, for frying
2 large shallots, peeled and cut into 1/16-in/1.5-mm thick (or
slightly thinner) r ounds and separated into rings
Kosher salt
POTATOES
1 lb/455 g star chy potatoes, such as russet, peeled and cut
into lar ge chunks
1/2 cup/120 ml milk or cr eam
3 tbsp butter
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
LIVER
2 tbsp butter
Two 4- oz/120-g thin liver cutlets, patted dry on paper towels
About 1/2 cup/60 g ﬂour, for dr edging
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/2 cup/120 ml Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce , war medTO FR Y THE SHALLOTS , arrange a double layer of paper
towels on a plate for draining the shallots. P our the oil into
a medium saucepan; it should come to a depth of about 3/4
in/18 mm. (It’s important to use a deep pan and fairly
shallow oil so there’s no danger of the oil boiling over as
you fry .) Attach a candy thermometer to the side of the pan.
Heat over medium-high heat until the thermometer reads
350°F/180°C . Add about a quarter of the shallots and fry ,
stirring almost constantly with a slotted metal spoon or a
skimmer , until pale brown (the color of a grocery bag—any
darker and the shallots will be bitter), about 60 seconds. (If
you don’t have a thermometer , test the oil temperature by
just starting with a few shallots.) W ith the slotted spoon,
quickly scoop out the shallots and drain on the plate of
paper towels. They’ll crisp up as they cool. Repeat with the
remaining shallots in three more batches, transferring each
batch to the plate when done. Allow the oil to return to
350°F/180°C before each batch. If burned bits accumulate
in the oil, scoop them out before adding a new batch.
Sprinkle generously with salt and set aside. (Y ou can fry the
shallots several hours ahead. Once cool, transfer to an
airtight container .)
TO MAKE THE POT ATOES , put the potatoes in a medium
pot, cover with water by about 2 in/5 cm, add 2 tbsp salt,
and bring to a boil. Adjust the heat to a lively boil and cook
until the potatoes are thoroughly tender when pierced with
a knife. Drain in a colander . Put the milk and butter into the
pot, return to low heat, add the potatoes, and mash with a
potato masher , a large fork, or a big wooden spoon. (If you
want your potatoes really smooth, use a ricer or food mill,
but I’m okay with a few chunks.) Add more milk or butter
until you get the consistency you like. Season generosly
with salt and pepper , and keep warm in the pan.TO COOK THE LIVER,  heat a medium skillet over medium-
high and add the butter . When it begins to sizzle, quickly
dredge the liver in ﬂour , arrange in the pan, and season
generously with salt and pepper . Cook until the ﬁrst side is
nicely browned, about 2 minutes, ﬂip to the second side,
season again, and cook just until browned, another 1
minute. Do not overcook liver—it should be rosy pink inside
—so check by cutting a piece.
Spoon a nice bed of the warm potatoes on each plate,
arrange the liver on the potatoes, drizzle both with the
cream sauce, and top with a tangle of friend shallots. Serve
right away .
FARFALLE with SHRIMP and SCALLOPS in
SPICY SAFFRON–RED PEPPER CREAM
SAUCE
SERVES 2 AS A FIRST COURSE
This is a delicious dish, but also rich, so I like to serve it as
a ﬁrst course (smaller portions!) for special dinners. My
philosophy of menu planning is to serve a ﬁrst and a last
course with fanfare and fuss and make the middle courses
simpler . For the cook, this isn’t a fussy dish, however ,
because you can make the sauce ahead of time and keep it
warm, and then cook the seafood in the sauce just before
you combine it with the pasta. If you want to keep things
even simpler , make the dish with only one of the shellﬁsh in
the title.4 oz/115 g dry -pack bay scallops or sea scallops
1 cup/240 ml Spicy Saﬀr on–R ed Pepper Cream Sauce
6 oz/180 g medium shrimp, peeled and deveined
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
2 tbsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh basil
2 tbsp k osher salt
6 oz/180 g farfalle pasta or similar pasta shapes
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat. If using
sea scallops, cut away or pull oﬀ the tough muscle on the
side of each scallop and quarter the scallop.
While the water is heating, bring the cream sauce to a
gentle simmer , add the shrimp, and simmer for a minute or
so. Add the scallops and simmer until the shrimp and
scallops are cooked, 2 to 3 minutes longer , depending on
their size. K eep the sauce warm. In a small bowl, mix
together the lemon zest and basil.
When the water is boiling, add the salt and pasta, stir , and
cook until al dente, according to the package instructions.
Just before the pasta is ready , scoop out about 1 cup/240 ml
of the cooking water and set aside. Drain the pasta well
and return it to the pot.
Add the seafood sauce to the pasta and toss gently but
thoroughly to mix. If the mixture seems at all dry or
clumpy , add a few spoonfuls of the reserved cooking water ,
knowing that the pasta will continue to drink up sauce as it
sits.
Arrange a neat mound of pasta in each warmed bowl and
top with the zest-basil mixture, dividing it evenly . Serve
right away .MAYONNAISE SAUCES
MOST OF US HA VE BEEN CONDITIONED TO THINK OF
MAYONNAISE AS A CONDIMENT THA T COMES FROM A
JAR, one that is mostly functional rather than ﬂavorful. It
glues tuna and celery together to make tuna salad, it helps
lettuce stick to bread in countless sandwiches, and it
moistens yolks in deviled eggs.
But mayonnaise is much more than that. A well-made,
from-scratch mayonnaise isn’t a mere condiment. It’s a
spoonful of unctuousness that’s mellow and rich as a sauce
on its own, or rich and creamy as a base for other
ingredients. One taste of homemade mayonnaise—
especially one made with farm-fresh eggs—and you’ll
understand why the French consider it a true sauce. A
classic mayo, or one spiked with herbs, spices, or other
ﬂavorings, makes a beautiful dip for raw or steamed
vegetables, plays a deliciously considered role in a good
sandwich, pairs with cold roast chicken or red meat, and
forms the base of the famous French rouille, a red pepper
sauce that enriches ﬁsh soups and stews. It’s versatile, and
indispensable.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
Mayonnaise is made from egg yolks seasoned with a touch
of acidity (usually lemon juice, vinegar , or both), which are
then whipped with oil to form a voluminous emulsion. The
consistency of homemade mayonnaise will be diﬀerent from
that of the jarred stuﬀ . When you make it with a whisk, itwill be loose and almost pourable. If you use a blender or
food processor , it will be ﬁrmer and more puddinglike,
because generally more air is whipped into it. Which style
you make depends on what you plan to do with it: drizzle it,
slather it, or fold it.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
The egg yolks and oil must be close to room temperature
rather than cold. I often ignore that kind of instruction in a
recipe because I’m too lazy or impatient to plan ahead, but
in this case, temperature is critical. The emulsion won’t
come together with cold yolks and you’ll be left with a
liquidy mess. This doesn’t happen every time, but it
happens enough that you don’t want to take the risk. (Tip:
To warm eggs quickly to room temperature, immerse the
whole eggs in a bowl of warm water for a few minutes.)
You also need to know when to stop adding oil. Add too
much, too fast and the emulsion will break, causing the
mayonnaise to separate or curdle. The best way to avoid
this is to add the oil a drop at a time in the beginning of
whisking, and then slowly add the oil in a more steady
stream as it comes together .
Some cooks suggest ﬁxing a broken mayonnaise by
whisking together another egg yolk and some mustard, and
then gradually whisking the broken sauce into it. That
works, but it’s easier and usually just as eﬀective to put 1
tablespoon of warm water in another bowl and gradually
whisk the broken sauce into the water .
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?Portion size for mayonnaise depends on where the sauce is
being used. F or most uses, such as a dip or on a sandwich,
a couple of tablespoons are plenty .
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
A large bowl and a whisk are all you need, but a food
processor makes the job easy , and a rubber spatula helps
corral all of the ingredients.
STORAGE
Even though the French chefs at my cooking school would
leave a bowl of mayonnaise on the counter for days, it’s
important to refrigerate mayonnaise because it’s made with
raw egg yolks. And if you have any concerns about eating
or serving raw yolks (folks who are pregnant, elderly , very
young, or have a compromised immune system should
avoid them), use pasteurized eggs. Or , just use commercial
mayonnaise and add the ﬂavoring elements in the recipes.
It’s okay to cheat sometimes! Most mayonnaises will keep
in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. 
CLASSIC MAYONNAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Grocery-store eggs make perfectly good mayonnaise, but
taste mayo made with fresh, ﬂavorful eggs from the
farmers’ market, or maybe from your own chickens, and
you’ll understand why it’s regarded as an important sauce.
Sometimes farmers’ market eggs are smaller or larger than
a “large” egg from the supermarket, so pay attention to
their size and adjust your other ingredients as needed. The
other critical element here is the oil, which must also be
fresh. And this is not the time to use an olive oil with a big
ﬂavor . A neutral-ﬂavored vegetable or seed oil or a mild
and fruity extra-virgin olive oil allows the creamy ﬂavor to
stay balanced.
2 egg yolks
2 tsp white wine vinegar
1/4 tsp Dijon mustar d
Kosher salt
1 to 1 1/4 cups/240 to 360 ml mild e xtra-virgin olive oil or
canola, grapeseed, or a mixtur e
1 tbsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
WHISK METHOD:  Shape a kitchen towel into a ring on your
work surface and set a medium bowl in the center of thering. This will stabilize the bowl so that you can whisk with
one hand and pour in the oil with the other hand.
Put the egg yolks, vinegar , mustard, and 1/2 tsp salt in the
bowl and whisk vigorously to combine. As you continue to
whisk, begin adding the oil a drop at a time and whisk until
the sauce begins to emulsify . Continue whisking, and as the
mayonnaise gets thicker , you can add the oil a little faster .
When you have incorporated almost all of the oil, slow
down with adding the remaining oil and watch the sauce
closely . If you see oil starting to separate out, stop adding
oil; the yolks have absorbed enough. Whisk in the lemon
juice. T aste and adjust with more salt and lemon juice if
needed.
FOOD PROCESSOR METHOD:  Put the yolks, vinegar,
mustar d, and 1/2 tsp salt in a food pr ocessor and pulse until
well blended. The yolks will lik ely be sprayed on the sides of
the bowl, so scrape them down with a rubber spatula. W ith
the motor running, begin adding the oil in a very slow
stream. Y ou may need to stop and scrape again. As the
mayonnaise gets thick er, you can add the oil faster . When
you have incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and
watch the sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate
out, stop adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough. Whirl
in the lemon juice and a few dr ops of water, if the sauce
looks too thick. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt and
lemon juice if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 cup/7 g ﬁnely chopped fr esh
tender herb, such as ﬂat-leaf parsley, chervil, chives, dill,
basil, mint, or cilantr o, or a mixtur e, with the lemon juice. 
ROSEMARY-MINT MAYONNAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Rosemary is one of my favorite herbs, but its assertive
ﬂavor and wiry texture means that I rarely use it in
uncooked dishes. Here I infuse the oil with the rosemary
ﬂavor , taking texture out of the equation. The mayonnaise
is excellent with cold roast lamb, as a dip for little lamb
sliders, or slathered onto a roast beef sandwich.
1 to 1 1/4 cups/240 to 300 ml mild e xtra-virgin olive oil,
canola, grapeseed, or a mixtur e
2 fresh r osemary sprigs, 4 in/10 cm long
1/2 cup/10 g very lightly pack ed fresh mint leaves
1/2 cup/15 g lightly pack ed fresh ﬂat-leaf parsley leaves
2 egg yolks
2 tsp white wine vinegar, plus mor e if needed
1/2 tsp granulated sugar
1/4 tsp Dijon mustar d
Kosher salt
In a small saucepan, heat 1 cup/240 ml of the oil and the
rosemary over low heat until the oil gets quite hot but the
rosemary does not start to sizzle (check the oil temperature
with an instant-read thermometer , if you have one; aim for
140°F/60°C). K eep the oil at this temperature on the heatfor about 10 minutes, then remove the pan from the heat
and let the rosemary steep for another 20 to 30 minutes.
Taste the oil; it should be fragrant and ﬂavored but not
bitter . Remove and discard the rosemary sprigs. Let the oil
cool completely .
Bring a small saucepan of water to a boil over high heat.
Add the mint and parsley leaves, stir for 2 to 3 seconds,
and then drain the herbs in a colander . Immediately rinse
the herbs with very cold water to stop the cooking. Drain
well and blot them completely dry with paper towels.
In a food processor , combine the egg yolks, vinegar , sugar ,
mustard, and 1 tsp salt and pulse until well blended. The
yolks will likely be sprayed on the sides of the bowl, so
scrape them down with a rubber spatula. W ith the motor
running, begin adding the rosemary oil in a very slow
stream. Y ou may need to stop and scrape again. As the
mayonnaise gets thicker , you can add the oil faster . When
you have incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and
watch the sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate
out, stop adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough. If you
think you can still add more oil, add the ﬁnal 1/4 cup/60 ml
or so of unﬂavored oil.
Add the mint and parsley and process until well combined
into the mayonnaise. T aste and adjust the seasoning with
salt and vinegar if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Heat 2 lar ge fresh thyme sprigs in the oil
along with the r osemary and substitute basil for the parsley . 
SWEET ONION–CURRY MAYONNAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
This is my ultimate mayo for chicken salad, whether the
salad ends up between slices of bread or as the center of a
composed salad plate . The mayo is also good with slices of
cold roasted turkey breast or oven-fried sweet potatoes, or
as a dip for crudités, especially carrots, cauliﬂower , and
tender celery hearts.
2 tbsp canola or other neutral vegetable oil, plus 3/4 cup/180
ml
1 cup/140 g chopped sweet onion such as W alla W alla or
Vidalia or yellow onion
Kosher salt
1 tbsp mild cur ry powder
1 tsp peeled and ﬁnely chopped fr esh ginger
1 tbsp fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
2 tsp cider, rice, or white wine vinegar
1 tsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
1/4 tsp dry mustar d
3 egg yolks
In a medium frying pan, heat the 2 tbsp oil over medium-
high heat. Add the onion and 1/4 tsp salt and cook, stirring,
until the onion begins to soften, about 1 minute. Reducethe heat to low and continue to cook, stirring often, until
the onion is very soft, fragrant, and deeply golden but not
browned, 12 to 15 minutes. Add the curry powder and
ginger and cook for 1 minute more. Transfer the onion
mixture to a plate and let cool completely .
In a food processor , combine the cooled onion mixture, lime
juice, vinegar , sugar , mustard, and 1/2 tsp salt and pulse
until well blended. Add the egg yolks and process until the
mixture is mostly puréed. W ith the motor running, begin
adding the remaining 3/4 cup/180 ml oil in a very slow
stream. Y ou may need to stop and scrape again. As the
mayonnaise gets thicker , you can add the oil faster . When
you have incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and
watch the sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate
out, stop adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough. T aste
and adjust the seasoning with salt, sugar , and lime juice if
needed.
STORAGE : Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE : Add 1 small jalapeño chile, stemmed,
seeded (if desir ed), and minced, to the pan with the onion. 
SMOKY RED PEPPER MAYONNAISE
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/480 ML
Spanish smoked paprika, or pimentón  de la V era, comes in
sweet, bittersweet, and hot varieties. I like using the sweet
here because it plays well oﬀ the sweet roasted red pepper ,
but feel free to use whichever kind you like best. If you’re
pressed for time and opt for a jarred roasted red pepper , be
sure to rinse and dry it before adding it to the mayonnaise.
This crimson sauce, which is a bit like the French rouille, is
wonderful on grilled vegetable and mozzarella sandwiches
or as a dip for seared or steamed green beans.
2 egg yolks
2 tsp sher ry vinegar or r ed wine vinegar
1/4 tsp Dijon mustar d
1 or 2 cloves garlic
Kosher salt
1 to 1 1/4 cups/240 to 300 ml canola, grapeseed, or mild
extra-virgin olive oil, or a mixtur e
1 tsp Spanish sweet smok ed paprik a
1 red bell pepper, r oasted, peeled, stemmed, seeded, and
cut into a few pieces
Hot-pepper sauce such as SrirachaIn a food processor , combine the egg yolks, vinegar ,
mustard, garlic, and 1/2 tsp salt and pulse until well
blended. The yolks will likely be sprayed on the sides of the
bowl, so scrape them down with a rubber spatula. W ith the
motor running, begin adding the oil in a very slow stream.
You may need to stop and scrape again. As the mayonnaise
gets thicker , you can add the oil faster . When you have
incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and watch the
sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate out, stop
adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough.
With the motor running, add the paprika, roasted pepper ,
and a few dashes of hot-pepper sauce. T aste and adjust the
seasoning with salt and hot-pepper sauce if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Soak a small pinch (about 8 thr eads) of
saﬀron thr eads in 1 tbsp war m water for 10 minutes and
add the saﬀr on and soaking water with the egg yolk
mixtur e. 
AVOCADO-LIME MAYONNAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/340 ML
This recipe is doubly rich, with puréed avocado taking the
place of some of the oil. And although it’s not a low-fat
sauce by any means, the fats in avocado are so beneﬁcial
that I think it’s safe to consider this jade green sauce a
health food.
1 ripe avocado, halved, pitted, peeled, and cut into about 8
pieces
2 tbsp fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
2 egg yolks
Kosher salt
1 cup/240 ml avocado, canola, grapeseed, or mild e xtra-
virgin olive oil, or a mixtur e
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lime zest
In a small bowl, toss the avocado with 2 tsp of the lime
juice to prevent browning; set aside.
In a food processor , combine the egg yolks, the remaining 4
tsp lime juice, and 1/2 tsp salt and pulse until well blended.
The yolks will likely be sprayed on the sides of the bowl, so
scrape them down with a rubber spatula. W ith the motor
running, begin adding the oil in a very slow stream. Y oumay need to stop and scrape again. As the mayonnaise gets
thicker , you can add the oil faster . When you have
incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and watch the
sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate out, stop
adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough.
When all of the oil is incorporated, add the avocado, a few
chunks at a time, processing until the mayonnaise is
smooth and light. Whirl in the lime zest. T aste and adjust
the seasoning with salt and lime juice if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 2 tbsp chopped canned mild gr een
chiles and 1/4 cup/10 g chopped fr esh cilantr o with the last
of the avocado chunks. 
VITELLO TONNATO MAYONNAISE
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/480 ML
Vitello  tonnato is an Italian dish of cold sliced veal
slathered in an irresistible tuna-anchovy mayonnaise. The
veal is just a vehicle for the tasty mayonnaise, so I’m
skipping it here and focusing on the sauce. In this version,
I’m using some reduced broth as a quick substitute. Y ou
can serve this mayonnaise on any type of cold leftover
roasted meat or chicken, on grilled vegetables , on crostini,
or on seared fresh tuna—redundant, perhaps, but delicious.
1/2 cup/120 ml homemade turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or
canned r educed-sodium chick en br oth
1 cup/240 ml canola, grapeseed, or mild e xtra-virgin olive
oil, or a mixtur e
1/4 cup/60 ml fruity e xtra-virgin olive oil
2 egg yolks
2 tsp white wine vinegar
1/4 tsp Dijon mustar d
1 small clove garlic
Kosher salt
One 5- oz/140-g can olive oil–pack ed tuna, drained
4 olive oil–pack ed anchovy ﬁllets , rinsed
1 tbsp drained capers
1 tbsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed2 tbsp cr ème fraîche (optional)
In a small saucepan, bring the broth to a simmer over
medium-high heat. Simmer until reduced to about 2 tbsp, 6
to 8 minutes. Set aside to cool completely .
Pour both oils into a measuring cup; set aside. In a food
processor , combine the egg yolks, vinegar , mustard, garlic,
and 1/2 tsp salt and pulse until well blended. The yolks will
likely be sprayed on the sides of the bowl, so scrape them
down with a rubber spatula. W ith the motor running, begin
adding the oil in a very slow stream. Y ou may need to stop
and scrape again. As the mayonnaise gets thicker , you can
add the oil faster . When you have incorporated almost all of
the oil, slow down and watch the sauce closely . If you see
oil starting to separate out, stop adding oil; the yolks have
absorbed enough.
With the motor running, add the tuna, anchovies, capers,
lemon juice, and reduced broth and process until quite
smooth. If using the crème fraîche, add to the mixture and
pulse to combine. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt
and lemon juice if needed (if using canned broth, you
probably won’t need more salt).
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 cup/10 g ﬁnely chopped tender
fresh herb such as ﬂat-leaf parsley, chervil, chives, dill,
basil, mint, or cilantr o, or a mixtur e, with the cr ème fraîche. 
MELLOW GARLIC CONFIT AIOLI
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Aioli, a garlic-infused version of mayonnaise, is a wonderful
way to add Mediterranean ﬂavor to any dish. But I think my
taste buds must be more Swedish than Mediterranean
because most of the aioli I taste is too harshly garlicky for
me. This version tempers that bite but still delivers full
garlic ﬂavor in two forms: oil-poached cloves (or garlic
conﬁt) and garlic-ﬂavored oil. Y ou can use this sauce with
lightly steamed or grilled vegetables, fried shrimp, or crab
cakes, or you can stir it into a seafood stew at the last
minute for a creamy note (but don’t let it boil).
10 lar ge cloves garlic, smashed
1/2 cup/120 ml canola or other neutral vegetable oil
1/2 cup/120 ml fruity e xtra-virgin olive oil, plus mor e if
needed
2 egg yolks
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 tbsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
In a small saucepan, heat the garlic and both oils over
medium heat just until the garlic begins to sizzle the tiniestbit. Reduce the heat to low and continue to cook, swirling
the oil in the pan occasionally , until the cloves are
completely soft, 5 to 7 minutes. Don’t let the garlic brown
at all. Remove the pan from the heat and let the oil cool
completely . Scoop out the garlic and reserve the garlic and
the oil separately .
In a food processor , combine the egg yolks, garlic, vinegar ,
and 1/4 tsp salt and pulse until well blended. The yolks will
likely be sprayed on the sides of the bowl, so scrape them
down with a rubber spatula. W ith the motor running, begin
adding the reserved garlic oil in a very slow stream. Y ou
may need to stop and scrape again. As the mayonnaise gets
thicker , you can add the oil faster . When you have
incorporated almost all of the oil, slow down and watch the
sauce closely . If you see oil starting to separate out, stop
adding oil; the yolks have absorbed enough. Whirl in the
lemon juice and zest. Season with pepper , then taste and
adjust the seasoning with salt and lemon juice if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 cup/30 g ﬁnely chopped, pitted
black olives such as K alamata with the lemon juice and zest. 
UPDATED “FRY SAUCE”
MAKES ABOUT 3/4 CUP/180 ML
At the risk of upsetting fry-sauce cultists, I think this is a
more delicious version than the classic, rather simple
mayo-ketchup french fry sauce that is revered in parts of
the W est. It retains the creamy-zesty balance of the
original, but the umami factor is much stronger thanks to
soy and W orcestershire sauce. This sauce is yummy paired
with salty-fatty french fries or just about any other fried
food.
1/2 cup/120 ml Classic Mayonnaise
1/4 cup/60 ml k etchup
2 tsp W orcestershir e sauce
2 tsp fr esh lemon juice
2 tsp soy sauce
4 drops hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
In a small bowl, stir together the mayonnaise, ketchup,
Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, soy sauce, and hot-
pepper sauce. T aste and adjust the seasoning with
additional lemon juice, soy sauce, and hot-pepper sauce
until the sauce is zesty but balanced.STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tsp minced chipotle chile in adobo .
CHICKEN, APPLE, and HAZELNUT SALAD
with SWEET ONION–CURRY MAYONNAISE
SERVES 4
I’ve never lost my love for what I think of as ladies
luncheon chicken salad, which is tender chicken with
apples or grapes and some kind of crunchy nut, all bound
together with mayonnaise. Tuck some of this salad into a
croissant and you have a classic sandwich (and to my mind,
the only sandwich that should be allowed on a croissant). I
call for purchased rotisserie chicken here, but you can also
use home-roasted chicken. Almonds, pecans, or walnuts are
a ﬁne substitute for hazelnuts.
2 cups/280 g shr edded or diced cook ed chick en; a stor e-
bought r otisserie chick en is ﬁne
2 cups/240 g diced crisp, tart apple such as Braebur n, Pink
Lady, or F uji, peeled or not, as you pr efer
1 cup/160 g ﬁnely diced celery
1/4 cup/20 g thinly sliced gr een onion (white and light gr een
parts only)
1/2 to 3/4 cup/120 to 180 ml Sweet Onion–Cur ry Mayonnaise
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1/2 cup/55 g coarsely chopped, lightly toasted hazelnuts
Pretty lettuce leaves or 4 all-butter cr oissants, split, for
servingIn a large bowl, gently fold together the chicken, apple,
celery , green onion, and mayonnaise. Season with salt and
pepper . Sprinkle with the hazelnuts.
Arrange the chicken salad on the lettuce on serving plates,
or use the croissants to make sandwiches. Serve right
away .
SIMPLE SEAFOOD STEW with GRILLED
BREAD and SMOKY RED PEPPER
MAYONNAISE
SERVES 4
This dish is delicious as written
here, but the recipe is also a
starting point for whatever calls
to me when I’m shopping on the
day I’m cooking it: sweet summer
corn, chunks of ﬁrm zucchini, or
fat white beans. Y ou can turn this
simple stew into a feast by
adding shrimp, mussels, and
clams.
5 tbsp/75 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
1 small jalapeño chile, stemmed, seeded, and minced
11/2 tbsp chopped garlicTwo 28- oz/795-g cans whole peeled tomatoes, coarsely
chopped, with juices, or 4 cups/600 g peeled, seeded, and
chopped fr esh tomatoes
1 cup/240 ml dry white wine
4 slices artisanal white br ead such as ciabatta or pain au
levain
3 cups/720 ml ﬁsh stock, bottled clam juice, homemade
turkey br oth, chick en br oth, or canned r educed-sodium
chick en br oth
Large pinch of saﬀr on thr eads (about 15 thr eads)
1 lb/455 g halibut, cod, or other ﬁr m white ﬁsh, cut into 1-
in/2.5-cm chunks
Kosher salt
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
2/3 cup/165 ml Smok y Red Pepper Mayonnaise
2 tbsp chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
In a large soup pot or Dutch oven, heat 3 tbsp of the oil
over medium heat. Add the chile and cook, stirring
occasionally , until soft and fragrant, about 1 minute. Add
the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, another 30
seconds or so . Add the tomatoes and wine, raise the heat to
medium-high, and simmer vigorously until the tomatoes
have broken down and the mixture is slightly soupy , about
15 minutes.
While the soup is simmering, prepare a medium ﬁre in a
charcoal or gas grill. Or , position an oven rack about 5
in/12 cm from the boiler element and heat the broiler . If
using a grill, the ﬁre is ready when you can comfortably
hold your hand, palm-side down, 2 to 3 in/5 to 7.5 cm above
the grill rack for 4 seconds. Brush the grill rack so that it is
perfectly clean.Brush the bread slices on both sides with the remaining 2
tbsp oil. Place on the grill rack or on a baking sheet under
the broiler and grill or broil, turning once, until nicely
toasted on both sides. Set aside.
Pour the stock into the tomato mixture and crumble in the
saﬀron. Simmer to reduce the liquid slightly and
concentrate the ﬂavors, about 5 minutes. Add the ﬁsh
chunks, stir to make sure they are completely covered by
liquid, and simmer until the ﬁsh is opaque throughout, 3 to
5 minutes more. Season with salt and hot-pepper sauce.
Put one slice of the grilled bread in each of four wide soup
bowls, ladle some of the stew over each slice, and top with
a big spoonful of the mayonnaise. Sprinkle with the parsley
and serve immediately , with a knife and fork as well as a
spoon.
QUICK FISH TACOS with AVOCADO-LIME
MAYONNAISE and SALSA VERDE
SERVES 4
At the risk of getting busted by the gourmet police, I am
going to proclaim that I love frozen ﬁsh sticks. When I was
a kid, my parents frequently went out on Friday nights,
which meant I could ﬁx my own ﬁsh-stick dinner and my
aﬀection for the bland and crunchy things has remained to
this day . I like the way they taste in ﬁsh tacos, too .
But I do have standards, which means I look for the “whole
ﬁllet” sticks, usually haddock, which are miles better thanthe compressed bits. A box of ﬁsh sticks in the freezer
means it’s a cinch to make these tacos. Of course, if you
want to use fresh ﬁsh, that’s great. Just dust the ﬁsh ﬁllets
in ﬂour seasoned with salt and pepper and sauté until
golden and cooked through. Many stores sell shredded
cabbage, sometimes labeled “angel hair .” If you prefer to
slice your own, cut a whole cabbage into quarters and slice
part of a quarter into very thin shreds. W rap the remaining
cabbage and store in the crisper drawer for up to two
weeks.
4 tbsp/60 ml fr esh lime juice
11/2 tsp granulated sugar
1/2 tsp k osher salt
11/2 cups/100 g ﬁnely shr edded gr een cabbage
8 whole pieces fr ozen br eaded ﬁsh ﬁllets
Eight 6-in/15-cm cor n tortillas
1/2 cup/120 ml Avocado -Lime Mayonnaise
1/3 cup/7 g coarsely chopped fr esh cilantr o
1/2 cup/120 ml salsa ver de, homemade  Roasted Gr een Chile
and T omatillo Sauce , made without avocado, or pur chased
1/2 cup/55 g crumbled Cotija  or feta cheese
In a medium bowl, stir together 3 tbsp of the lime juice, the
sugar , and salt. Add the cabbage and toss to coat evenly . As
you ﬁx the rest of the dish, toss the cabbage occasionally so
it softens slightly .
Heat the oven and bake the ﬁsh as directed on the
package. Just before serving, wrap the tortillas in
aluminum foil and warm in the oven for 5 to 7 minutes, or
wrap them in paper towels and heat in the microwave on
high for 1 minute.To assemble each taco, lay a ﬁsh ﬁllet on a tortilla (cut the
ﬁsh in half if it ﬁts better that way). T op with some
cabbage, mayonnaise, cilantro, salsa, and cheese and fold
loosely . Serve right away .
GRILLED GREEN BEANS with VITELLO
TONNATO MAYONNAISE
SERVES 4
This is the kind of appetizer that sneaks up on you. Y ou’re
chatting, sipping your wine, munching on the occasional
green bean dipped in the sauce … and before you know it,
you’ve devoured the platter . They’re that good.
1 tbsp Dijon mustar d
1 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
1/4 tsp chili powder
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1 lb/455 g fr esh gr een beans, ends trimmed
1 cup/240 ml Vitello T onnato Mayonnaise
In a medium bowl, whisk together the mustard, olive oil,
chili powder , and salt. Add the beans and toss well to coat.
Prepare a medium-hot ﬁre in a charcoal or gas grill or heat
a stove-top grill pan over medium-high heat. If using a grill,
the ﬁre is ready when you can comfortably hold your hand,
palm-side down, 2 to 3 in/5 to 7.5 cm above the grill rack
for 2 to 3 seconds. Brush the grill rack so that it is perfectly
clean.Arrange the beans on the grill rack or grill pan, positioning
them perpendicular to the bars so they don’t fall through.
(Yes, I know it’s obvious, but it doesn’t hurt to be
reminded.) Grill, turning frequently , until the beans are
nicely blackened and blistered, 5 to 10 minutes, depending
on the size and age of the beans.
Transfer the beans to a platter and serve right away with
the mayonnaise in a bowl for dipping.HOLLANDAISE SAUCES
IF THE ONL Y HOLLANDAISE SAUCE YOU’VE EVER
TASTED IS THA T SORR Y YELLOW P ASTE FROM A
PACKET , YOU WON’T YET UNDERST AND MY JOY A T
MAKING HOMEMADE HOLLANDAISE.  But once you’ve
tried it yourself , you will. It isn’t diﬀicult, but it does
require proper technique and a little attention. And the
resulting sauce is a true French treasure: light and billowy ,
lemony , and rich with butter and egg, tasting of neither but
rather of something all its own.
Hollandaise is traditionally used to sauce that Sunday-
brunch staple, eggs Benedict, a slightly odd dish because
you are putting an egg sauce on top of eggs. I adore it
anyway , and I have updated it in this chapter for a delicious
change of pace. But I think hollandaise comes into its glory
when paired with green vegetables, because its richness is
countered by fresh wholesomeness. Steamed asparagus,
broccoli, or even slightly bitter broccoli rabe are fantastic
with a lemony hollandaise, and dipping artichoke leaves
into the Saﬀron–Red P epper Hollandaise on page 152
would be a lovely way to spend a summer evening.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
Making hollandaise sauce really feels like you’re
participating in French cuisine. First, you whisk egg yolks
and a small amount of a ﬂavoring liquid over low heat. This
gently cooks the yolks, thickening them and allowing them
to capture the air bubbles that are introduced as you whisk.Once this yolk foam develops, you whisk in melted butter to
make an emulsion that turns thick, very glossy , and
unctuous. The more gentle the temperature, the longer it
will take, but that’s a good thing. It gives you more control
over the texture of the eggs and lets you whisk in lots of air
for a lovely , ﬂuﬀy consistency .
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
There are three potential trouble spots when making a
hollandaise. The ﬁrst is to avoid scrambling or overcooking
the yolks by whisking them over heat that is too high. This
is easily solved by using a double boiler (and paying
attention). Although I’ve seen chefs make hollandaise in a
saucepan in direct contact with a burner , the gentler heat
of a double boiler (a bowl set over a pan of simmering
water) gives you lots of control and conﬁdence—just go
slow and have patience.
The second potential trouble spot is failing to achieve an
emulsion between the egg yolks and the butter . If you add
the melted butter too quickly or add too much, the yolks
won’t be able to absorb it all and the sauce will “break” and
look oily and separated. By adding the butter slowly , you
will see the point at which it is no longer being absorbed
well and you can just slow down or stop there.
The third trouble spot has to do with ingredients, not
technique. A hollandaise sauce is rich, of course, but its
ﬂavor is actually quite delicate. And delicate can become
bland very quickly if you aren’t careful. How many
uninspired servings of eggs Benedict have we all endured?
I prefer eggs from the farmers’ market because they havereal eggy ﬂavor but if I buy eggs for this sauce in the
supermarket, I pick the latest “sell by” date I can ﬁnd. It’s
also worth using fresh, premium butter . You can’t get
around the fact that hollandaise is an indulgent sauce, so
just celebrate the ingredients instead. I use plenty of citrus
in the sauce, too—adding grated zest as well as juice—and
sometimes I brown the butter for even more ﬂavor .
I know it’s classic to prepare clariﬁed butter for making a
hollandaise. This is when you melt butter and separate the
clear butterfat from the water and the milk solids that
settle on the bottom of the pan. And it’s ﬁne if you want to
make a batch of clariﬁed butter . But I don’t like to fuss too
much when I cook, so I just melt the butter and pour
directly from the pan into my sauce, and if a little of its
water and milk solids come along, that’s okay .
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
Hollandaise is rich, so 1/4 cup/60 milliliters per person will
be plenty in most cases.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
You need a medium, wide, stainless-steel bowl and a
medium saucepan to sit below it as its double-boiler mate.
You also need a good whisk and a strong arm or a handheld
electric mixer . I like having a heat-resistant rubber spatula
handy for scraping the sides of the bowl as I’m whisking.
STORAGE
Although a hollandaise sauce is lofty and delicate, it does
have the ability to hold nicely for an hour or so if you leave
it in the double boiler over very low heat, or if you pour it
into a large thermos. When I have leftover hollandaise, I
like to use it as part of a topping for toasted crostini
because it’s delicious and browns beautifully under the
broiler . Refrigerate leftovers in an airtight container for up
to 3 days.
BLENDER HOLLANDAISE, PERHAPS
Making hollandaise in a blender is a quick way to get
where you’re going. Y ou put the egg yolks and lemon
juice in the blender , and then you slowly pour in the hot
melted butter as the blender blades whirl. The advantage
of this method is that by not cooking the egg yolks on the
stove top, you don’t run the risk of overcooking them.
The merit in this method is its quickness, but I’ve never
gotten results that rival a handmade hollandaise. The
consistency always seems runny to me, and I don’t think
it’s that hard to whisk egg yolks in a double boiler .
A compromise position could be to use a handheld mixer
to whisk your yolks and butter in the double boiler ,
sparing yourself some of the elbow grease but still
properly cooking the yolks and getting that iconic light,
ﬂuﬀy texture. 
CLASSIC (BUT LEMONY) HOLLANDAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
The classic sauce is incredibly delicate in ﬂavor . I prefer a
slightly zingier version, however , so I amp up the ﬂavor
here with lemon juice and lemon zest. If you’re lucky
enough to have your own hens or to buy eggs at a farmers’
market, this sauce is the perfect destination for them. A
yolk from a standard large supermarket egg weighs about
2/3 ounce/18 grams, so if your farm egg yolks are smaller
than that, add another half a yolk or so .
6 oz/170 g unsalted butter
2 egg yolks
1 tbsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp water
Kosher salt
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat.
Don’t stir as it melts. Y ou want the milky solids to fall to the
bottom and the butterfat to ﬂoat to the top. K eep warm.
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainless-steel bowl in the pan over (not touching) thewater . Put the egg yolks, lemon juice, water , and 1/4 tsp salt
in the bowl and start whisking. As the bowl heats up, the
yolks will begin to thicken. Whisk vigorously , scraping
around the bowl with a heat-resistant rubber spatula from
time to time so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck to the sides
and overcook. Beat until thick and frothy but not quite
ﬂuﬀy , 3 to 4 minutes. The whisk will start leaving a clear
space on the bottom of the bowl. Remove the bowl from the
heat and whisk for another 30 seconds or so to stabilize the
sauce and let the bowl cool down.
Continue whisking as you slowly drizzle in the warm melted
butter , taking care not to add too much of the milky-watery
layer from the bottom of the pan. As you pour and whisk,
make sure the yolks are accepting the butter and the yolks
and butter are emulsifying. If the sauce looks at all broken
or “curdly ,” stop adding butter and just whisk for a few
seconds. Only resume adding butter once you’ve whisked
the sauce into creaminess again.
Once all of the butter has been added, whisk in the lemon
zest. T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt and lemon
juice if needed. If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  Hollandaise is best eaten right af ter you mak e it,
but you can hold it in the double boiler over very low heat or
in a ther mos for up to 1 hour . Refrigerate lef tovers in an
airtight container for up to 3 days.
QUICK CHANGE  Fold 2 tbsp ﬁnely chopped pr eserved
lemon peel into the ﬁnished sauce. 
LIME–BROWN BUTTER HOLLANDAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
Here, the butter ﬂavor of the hollandaise is ampliﬁed
thanks to browning. The butter develops a lovely nuttiness
that tastes especially good in the sauce. This is a gorgeous
partner for crab cakes and other seafood, grilled chicken
breasts, and just about any vegetable, but especially
asparagus.
3/4 cup/170 g unsalted butter
2 egg yolks
2 tbsp fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
Kosher salt
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lime zest
Dash of hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
In a small, heavy saucepan or frying pan, melt the butter
over medium heat. Once the butter has melted, keep
cooking it. It will sizzle and foam as the water cooks oﬀ .
Keep cooking, scraping the bottom of the pan with a heat-
resistant rubber spatula or wooden spoon as the milk solids
in the butter turn a light golden brown, 4 to 5 minutes.
Once the butter becomes very fragrant and smells toasty ,
remove the pan from the heat and let the butter cool
slightly .Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainless-steel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the
water . Put the egg yolks, lime juice, and 1/4 tsp salt in the
bowl and start whisking. As the bowl heats up, the yolks
will begin to thicken. Whisk vigorously , scraping around the
bowl with a heat-resistant rubber spatula from time to time
so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck and overcook. Beat until
thick and frothy but not quite ﬂuﬀy , 3 to 4 minutes. The
whisk will start leaving a clear space on the bottom of the
bowl. Remove the bowl from the heat and whisk for another
30 seconds or so to stabilize the sauce and let the bowl cool
down.
Continue whisking as you slowly drizzle in the browned
butter . Unlike with classic hollandaise, go ahead and add
all of the milk solids at the bottom of the pan. They carry
most of the “browned” ﬂavor . As you pour and whisk, make
sure the yolks are accepting the butter and the yolks and
butter are emulsifying. If the sauce looks at all broken or
“curdly ,” stop adding butter and just whisk for a few
seconds. Only resume adding butter once you’ve whisked
the sauce into creaminess again.
Once all of the butter has been added, whisk in the lime
zest and hot-pepper sauce. T aste and adjust the seasoning
with salt, lime juice, and hot-pepper sauce if needed. If
possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  This sauce is best eaten right af ter you mak e it,
but you can hold it in the double boiler over very low heat or
in a ther mos for up to 1 hour . Refrigerate lef tovers in an
airtight container for up to 3 days.
QUICK CHANGE  Fold in 2 tbsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh cilantr o
just befor e serving. 
“STEAK SAUCE” HOLLANDAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
I wanted to pump up the umami ﬂavor of my classic
hollandaise, so I added soy sauce, W orcestershire, and
sherry vinegar . If I had pan drippings from a roast beef , I
would whisk them in, too . I pair this with steak and garlicky
fried potatoes .
3/4 cup/170 g unsalted butter
1 tsp soy sauce
1 tsp W orcestershir e sauce
Hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
2 egg yolks
1 tbsp sher ry vinegar, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp water
Kosher salt
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat.
Don’t stir as it melts. Y ou want the milky solids to fall to the
bottom and the butterfat to ﬂoat to the top. K eep warm.
In a small bowl, stir together the soy sauce, W orcestershire
sauce, and a few dashes of hot-pepper sauce; set aside.Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and placeover medium heat. Rest a medium
stainless-steel bowl in the pan over (nottouching) the water .
Put the egg yolks, vinegar , water , and 1/4 tsp salt in the
bowl and start whisking. As the bowl heats up, the yolks
will begin to thicken. Whisk vigorously , scraping around the
bowl with a heat-resistant rubber spatula from time to time
so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck and overcook. Beat until
thick and frothy but not quite ﬂuﬀy , 3 to 4 minutes. The
whisk will start leaving a clear space on the bottom of the
bowl. Remove the bowl from the heat and whisk for another
30 seconds or so to stabilize the sauce and let the bowl cool
down.
Continue whisking as you slowly drizzle in the warm melted
butter , taking care not to add the milky-watery layer from
the bottom of the pan. As you pour and whisk, make sure
the yolks are accepting the butter and the yolks and butter
are emulsifying. If the sauce looks at all broken or “curdly ,”
stop adding butter and just whisk for a few seconds. Only
resume adding butter once you’ve whisked the sauce into
creaminess again.
Once all of the butter has been added, whisk in the soy
sauce mixture and lemon zest. T aste and adjust the
seasoning with salt and vinegar if needed. If possible, serve
right away .
STORAGE : This sauce is best eaten right af ter you mak e it,
but you can hold it in the double boiler over very low heat or
in a ther mos for up to 1 hour . Refrigerate lef tovers in an
airtight container for up to 3 days.
QUICK CHANGE : Fold in 2 tbsp chopped fr esh tar ragon with
the lemon zest. 
SAFFRON–RED PEPPER HOLLANDAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
I doubt if any Provençal cook has ever made this version of
hollandaise, but I liked the way the ﬂavors in it conjured up
a south-of -France feeling as I made it, so I’m projecting a
Provençal connection here. Use a nice, fruity extra-virgin
olive oil to extend the Mediterranean note. This sauce begs
to be served with seafood, especially hot and sizzling from
the grill, and it’s crazy good on a gutsier version of eggs
Florentine .
Jarred Spanish piquillo peppers are excellent in this sauce.
You’ll need about three peppers. Or , you can use regular
jarred roasted red peppers, in which case one medium
pepper should be suﬀicient. And, of course, you can roast
and peel a fresh pepper .
1/2 cup/115 g unsalted butter
2 oz/55 g r oasted r ed peppers
2 tbsp fruity e xtra-virgin olive oil
2 tbsp fr esh orange juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp water
Kosher salt
Large pinch of saﬀr on thr eads (about 15 thr eads)
2 egg yolks
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated orange zest1/8 tsp hot-pepper sauce such as Sriracha
In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat.
Don’t stir as it melts. Y ou want the milky solids to fall to the
bottom and the butterfat to ﬂoat to the top. K eep warm.
In a food processor , combine the red peppers and olive oil
and process until a smooth purée forms. Y ou want to
emulsify the oil with the peppers; the mixture should look
creamy and combined.
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainless-steel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the
water . Put the orange juice, water , 1/4 tsp salt, and saﬀron
into the bowl and let sit over the heat for a few minutes so
the saﬀron infuses the liquid. When you can smell the
saﬀron, add the egg yolks and start whisking. As the bowl
heats up, the yolks will begin to thicken. Whisk vigorously ,
scraping around the bowl with a heat-resistant rubber
spatula from time to time so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck
and overcook. Beat until thick and frothy but not quite
ﬂuﬀy , 3 to 4 minutes. The whisk will start leaving a clear
space on the bottom of the bowl. Remove the bowl from the
heat and whisk for another 30 seconds or so to stabilize the
sauce and let the bowl cool down.
Continue whisking as you slowly drizzle in the warm melted
butter , taking care not to add too much of the milky-watery
layer from the bottom of the pan. As you pour and whisk,
make sure the yolks are accepting the butter and the yolks
and butter are emulsifying. If the sauce looks at all broken
or “curdly ,” stop adding butter and just whisk for a few
seconds. Only resume adding butter once you’ve whisked
the sauce into creaminess again.Once all of the butter has been added, whisk in the pepper
purée, the orange zest, and hot-pepper sauce. T aste and
adjust the seasoning with salt, hot-pepper sauce, and
orange juice if needed. If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  This sauce is best eaten right af ter you mak e it,
but you can hold it in the double boiler over very low heat or
in a ther mos for up to 1 hour . Refrigerate lef tovers in an
airtight container for up to 3 days.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tsp Spanish sweet smok ed paprik a
to the pepper pur ée.
DO I NEED TO WORRY ABOUT THE EGG
YOLKS?
I’d love to be able to say unequivocally that it’s always
safe to eat a hollandaise sauce, but I’m afraid I can’t do
it. There will always be a small risk of salmonella in foods
with egg yolks that reach only about 140°F/60°C when
the sauce is ﬁnished cooking. The temperature for
ultimate food safety is 160°F/70°C . With that said, unless
you’re pregnant, very young, very old, or have a
compromised immune system, the yolks in a hollandaise
are suﬀiciently cooked and the risk of a foodborne illness
is minimal. If you’re worried, you can use pasteurized
eggs, but the ﬂavor and texture of the ﬁnished sauce
won’t be the same. Another way to minimize the risk is to
buy the freshest eggs you can ﬁnd, refrigerate them the
moment you get them home, and serve the ﬁnished sauce
right away . 
BÉARNAISE SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
Béarnaise is a close relative of hollandaise, but it includes
very French ingredients such as tarragon, wine, and
shallot. Be sure to chop tarragon with a very sharp knife, as
it bruises easily . Béarnaise is classically paired with steak,
but it’s also marvelous with salmon, crab cakes, and even
plain-Jane chicken breasts.
1/4 cup/60 ml white wine vinegar
1/4 cup/60 ml dry white wine
1 tbsp minced shallot or yellow onion
1 fresh tar ragon sprig, plus 1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped leaves,
plus mor e if needed
2/3 to 3/4 cup/140 to 170 g unsalted butter
2 egg yolks
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
In a small saucepan. combine the vinegar , wine, shallot,
and tarragon sprig and bring to a boil over medium-high
heat. Boil until reduced to about 1 tbsp, 7 to 9 minutes.
Strain through a ﬁne-mesh sieve into a medium bowl,
pressing on the herbs and shallot with a rubber spatula to
squeeze out all of the ﬂavor .In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat.
Don’t stir as it melts. Y ou want the milky solids to fall to the
bottom and the butterfat to ﬂoat to the top. K eep warm.
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainless-steel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the
water . Put the egg yolks, vinegar reduction, and 1/4 tsp salt
in the bowl and start whisking. As the bowl heats up, the
yolks will thicken. Whisk vigorously , scraping around the
bowl with a heat-resistant rubber spatula from time to time
so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck and overcook. Beat until
thick and frothy but not ﬂuﬀy , 3 to 4 minutes. The whisk
will start leaving a clear space on the bottom of the bowl.
Remove the bowl from the heat and whisk for another 30
seconds to stabilize the sauce and let the bowl cool down.
Continue whisking as you slowly drizzle in the melted
butter , taking care not to add too much of the milky-watery
layer . As you pour and whisk, make sure the yolks are
accepting the butter and the yolks and butter are
emulsifying. If the sauce looks broken or “curdly ,” stop
adding butter and whisk for a few seconds. Resume adding
butter once you’ve whisked the sauce into creaminess
again.
Once all of the butter has been added, whisk in the
chopped tarragon. Season with salt, pepper , and with more
tarragon if needed. If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  Béar naise is best eaten right af ter you mak e it,
but you can hold it in the double boiler over very low heat or
in a ther mos for up to 1 hour . Refrigerate lef tovers in an
airtight container for up to 3 days.QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp pastis or other anise-ﬂavor ed
liqueur to the r educed vinegar mixtur e.
SMOKED-SALMON BENEDICT BITES
MAKES 16 HORS D’OEUVRES
I learned to make these addictive hors d’oeuvres during my
one and only restaurant job, working as a cook in a small
café in Denver . We did a thriving Sunday brunch business
and usually had leftover hollandaise at the end of the shift,
which we put to excellent use in these buttery-crisp snacks.
I call for my version of classic hollandaise, but any of the
sauces in this chapter would work well with this recipe.
These hors d’oeuvres freeze beautifully , too, so they’re
ideal for make-ahead entertaining.
1/2 cup/120 ml Classic (but L emony) Hollandaise , chilled
1/2 cup/65 g ﬂak ed hot-smok ed salmon
1/2 cup/55 g shr edded F ontina or Havarti cheese
1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh chives
Freshly gr ound black pepper
16 baguette slices, 1/2 in/12 mm thick
Position an oven rack about 5 in/12 cm from the broiler
element and heat the broiler .
In a small bowl, gently fold together the hollandaise,
smoked salmon, cheese, and chives. Season well with
pepper .Arrange the baguette slices on a large rimmed baking
sheet and broil until lightly toasted on one side, 1 to 2
minutes. Remove the pan from the oven, ﬂip the toasts, and
let them cool.
Spread about 1 tbsp of the salmon mixture on each cooled
toast, mounding the mixture slightly . Return the pan to the
broiler and cook until the salmonis bubbling and golden
brown, about 1 minute. Serve right away .
To make ahead: A fter topping the toasts with the salmon
mixture, refrigerate until very ﬁrm, about 30 minutes.
Individually wrap each chilled toast in plastic wrap,
transfer them all to a ziplock freezer bag, and freeze for up
to 2 months. T o serve, arrange the toasts, straight from the
freezer , in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet and
bake in a 400°F/200°C/gas 6 oven until heated through and
toasty , 20 to 22 minutes. If they need more browning, ﬁnish
them under the broiler for another minute.
FRIED EGGS with GARLICKY CHARD and
SAFFRON–RED PEPPER HOLLANDAISE
SERVES 4
Here is another recipe created by my friend Matthew Card.
It’s a riﬀ on eggs Florentine (eggs Benedict but with
spinach instead of Canadian bacon or ham) and, like every
dish he makes, it is turbocharged with ﬂavor . It would also
be delicious with any of the other sauces in this chapter , so
feel free to experiment.Avoid using a hard-crusted bread
here. If you can’t ﬁnd focaccia,
substitute something tender and
ﬂavorful, such as brioche or a
soft Italian loaf . Peppadew
peppers, which originated in
South A frica, are sweet, tangy ,
and only modestly hot. They are
pickled and sold in jars in the deli
section of well-stocked grocery
stores.
Kosher salt
1 large bunch R ainbow or Bright Lights Swiss char d (12
oz/340 g), leaves and stems separated and stems cut
crosswise into slices 1/4 in/6 mm thick
4 tbsp/60 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
3 cloves garlic, minced
Pinch of Espelette pepper  or red pepper ﬂak es
1/2 cup/80 g thinly sliced jar red roasted r ed pepper
4 tsp minced pickled P eppadew pepper
4 large eggs
4 pieces focaccia, toasted
1 cup/240 ml Saﬀron–R ed Pepper Hollandaise
Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the chard
leaves (not the stems) and cook, stirring occasionally , until
just tender , 3 to 5 minutes. Drain, rinse well with cold
water , and squeeze out as much excess water as possible.
Chop coarsely and set aside.
In a large frying pan over medium-high heat, heat 3 tbsp of
the olive oil over medium-high heat. Add the chard stems
and a large pinch of salt and cook, stirring occasionally ,until tender and lightly browned, 6 to 9 minutes. Add the
garlic and Espelette pepper and cook, stirring, until very
fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in the cooked chard leaves,
roasted pepper , and P eppadew pepper . Cook, stirring often,
until the ﬂavors are blended and the chard is hot, about 2
minutes. Transfer to a medium bowl and cover to keep
warm. Do not rinse the pan.
Break each egg into a small teacup. Return the frying pan
to low heat and add the remaining 1 tbsp oil. Carefully slide
the eggs from the teacups into the pan so they stay whole.
Season them with salt, cover the pan, and cook until the
eggs are just set, 2 to 3 minutes.
Place a piece of focaccia on each plate, divide the chard
mixture evenly among the focaccia, top with an egg, and
then spoon a generous blanket of the warm hollandaise
over the top. Serve right away .
SEARED SKIRT STEAK with GARLICKY
FRIED POTATOES and “STEAK SAUCE”
HOLLANDAISE
SERVES 2
Next to rib eye, skirt steak is my favorite cut of beef for its
beefy ﬂavor and appealing texture, which is tender and
chewy at the same time. The muscle ﬁbers in skirt steak
are very long and loose, which creates a particularly juicy
consistency . But take care not to overcook it, because that
juiciness will disappear quickly .The twice-cooked method for the
potatoes here is borrowed from
classic french fry–making
technique. The ﬁrst round of
cooking makes the potatoes
tender and the second makes
them crisp. This dish is a perfect
bistro-at-home dinner , so serve it
with a simple green salad and a
glass of Beaujolais or Côtes du
Rhône.
12 oz/340 g medium Y ukon gold potatoes, sliced 1/8 in/3 mm
thick
4 tbsp/60 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
12 oz/340 g skirt steak
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 tbsp chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley
1/2 cup/120 ml “Steak Sauce” Hollandaise , or mor e if you
like
Spread a few paper towels or a large, clean dish towel (not
dried with fabric softener!) on a work surface, arrange the
potato slices on the towel(s) in a single layer , and pat dry
thoroughly . Leave the towel(s) on the work surface.
In one large or two medium frying pans, heat 2 tbsp of the
oil over medium-high heat. When the oil is shimmering,
carefully add the potato slices in more or less a single layer .
Season with 1/2 tsp salt and 1/4 tsp pepper . Reduce the heat
to medium and cook undisturbed until the underside of the
slices is just beginning to turn golden, 1 to 2 minutes. Flip
the potatoes over , season them lightly again, and continueto cook until they are tender when you bite into a slice but
are not too browned, another 1 to 2 minutes. W ith a slotted
spatula or tongs, transfer the potato slices to the towel(s)
to drain. Do not rinse the pan.
In another large frying pan, preferably cast-iron, heat 1
tbsp of the remaining oil. While the oil is heating, cut the
steak into two or three pieces, depending on what ﬁts best
in the pan. Season the steak pieces generously with salt
and pepper . When the oil is shimmering, add the steak
pieces and cook, undisturbed, until nicely browned on the
underside, about 3 minutes. Flip the steaks, reduce the
heat to medium-high, and continue to cook for 1 minute
longer for rare, 2 to 3 minutes longer for medium-rare, or
until done to your liking. (I hope that’s no more done than
medium-rare.) Transfer the steaks to a plate and tent with
aluminum foil to keep warm.
Return the potato frying pan(s) to medium-high heat, add
the remaining 1 tbsp oil, and heat until shimmering. Add
the potatoes and cook them a second time, ﬂipping them
when they are nicely browned on the ﬁrst side, about 1
minute. Sprinkle the garlic over all of the slices and cook
until the potatoes are nicely browned on the second side,
about 1 minute longer . Sprinkle with the parsley and divide
between two warmed dinner plates.
Slice the steak on the diagonal across the grain and divide
the slices between the plates. Spoon a nice dollop of the
warm hollandaise over the meat. P our any accumulated
juices from the steak over the sauce and serve right away .GRAVY, JUS, AND PAN SAUCE
 
GROWING UP , MY F AMIL Y’S HOLIDA Y DINNERS AL WAYS
FEATURED A ROAST BEEF OR A LEG OF LAMB.  The gravy
was a highly treasured component of the meal.
I learned the method for gravy from my mother , and by the
time I was in college, I had mastered it and was anointed
the oﬀicial gravy maker . And it was pretty easy to make:
pour oﬀ the fat; scrape up the drippings; add a little ﬂour , a
little broth, and a shake of Kitchen Bouquet (hey , it makes
the color great); and voilà, you have a deeply ﬂavored,
savory sauce. Easy .
It stopped being easy the year there were no drippings.
When the roast came out of the oven, the pan looked like it
had been through the dishwasher rather than through two
hours of cradling a juicy roast. That experience taught me
an extremely useful lesson: a gravy , jus, or pan sauce isn’t
hard to make in terms of what the cook has to do, but it is
totally dependent on what the roast beef , chicken, duck, or
the like does ﬁrst. It’s impossible to predict and even
similar cuts of meat won’t behave the same way twice. The
backbone of any of these sauces is the concentrated ﬂavor
contributed by the food’s juices, and if you don’t have
enough, you either don’t have a sauce or you have to ﬁnd
the ﬂavor elsewhere.
I’m structuring this chapter diﬀerently from the others
because I think the most useful information to share is the
basic method for making each of these sauces. So, here you
will ﬁnd a master recipe for gravy , jus, and pan sauce and
ideas for creatively ﬂavoring them.
GRAVYI’m deﬁning gravy as a sauce made from pan drippings, fat
from the main ingredient, a thickener such as ﬂour , and
liquid, with the thickening the deﬁning feature. Gravies
accompany big roasted things, such as an Easter leg of
lamb, Thanksgiving turkey , Christmas roast beef—meat or
poultry that is in the oven long enough to give oﬀ ﬂavorful
juices that become more so as they roast in the bottom of
the pan. The word gravy can seem down-market, like what
might be congealed on a blue-plate special in a diner . But a
well-made gravy fashioned from roast turkey or roast beef
drippings can be as exquisite as any demi-glace sauce at a
restaurant. A t the same time, it is satisfyingly familiar and
comforting in its simplicity .
GRAVY COMPONENTS
The components are essentially the same whether you’re
roasting a chicken, turkey , pork loin, sirloin roast, or leg of
lamb. Read through each step carefully so that you are
familiar with all the “moving parts” of a gravy and can
more easily make judgments about them while you’re
cooking. All of the sauces in this chapter have an element
of urgency to them, though with a gravy you need to let
your roast rest anyway , which gives you a comfortable
window in which to perform the alchemy .
THE ROASTING P AN Ideally , a roasting pan is heavy and
not nonstick. It should also not be so large that there’s a
big area of exposed surface around whatever you’re
roasting where juices can evaporate too quickly or burn. If
the only pan you have is too big, surround whatever you’re
cooking with some onion, carrot, celery , fennel, or other
aromatic vegetable that will complement the gravy and willact as a buﬀer for the pan. Should you use a roasting rack?
That is subjective. I know some expert cooks who insist on
a rack and others who don’t. I don’t use a rack because I
am lazy .
THE AROMA TICS  In addition to protecting against the
evaporation and burning of juices, aromatic vegetables can
add ﬂavor to the ﬁnal gravy , so you might want to include
some anyway . A few lemon slices, garlic cloves, or sprigs of
thyme or rosemary are nice accents, too . Don’t go
overboard or your gravy will end up tasting like vegetable
soup. Plan on about 1 cup/140 grams diced aromatic
vegetables for a 3-to 4-pound/1.4-to 1.8-kilogram roast.
You can also ﬁll open space in your roasting pan with meat
scraps or meaty bones, which will amplify the savory
quotient of your gravy . An extra turkey neck; some chicken
necks, backs, or wings; some pork ribs; or some beef ribs
or meaty soup bones are all fairly inexpensive and good
insurance. Turkey and chicken necks yield succulent bits of
meat (stand-ins for giblets without the taste of organ meats
for those who don’t like the latter) to add to a poultry
gravy .
THE LIQUID  A good broth is the main ingredient of a gravy .
Make it from scratch if you can; it will keep for weeks in
your freezer . I think turkey broth is a great all-purpose
liquid for just about any gravy , so it is my standard and I’m
including a recipe for it in this chapter . I am not opposed to
using good store-bought broth, but be sure to choose a
reduced-sodium one, and I use chicken broth even for
roasted meats. I have yet to ﬁnd a commercial beef broth
that has a good ﬂavor . Water is just ﬁne, too, though only if
you have superior drippings to provide the ﬂavor .Cognac, port and other wines, and certain other spirits can
add a nice dimension to gravy , but only in moderation, as
they can overwhelm any gravy easily . Anything with alcohol
needs to simmer long enough to cook oﬀ most of the
alcohol. W ines need to be reduced by at least three-fourths
for them not to taste thin and sour in a sauce, so I prefer to
use wine in a jus, where the reduction doesn’t interfere
with the thickening. Apple cider can be lovely in a turkey or
pork gravy , and a touch of cream to ﬁnish can be nice.
THE F AT Most of the fat comes from the drippings of the
roast, but if you like, you can incorporate other fats, such
as butter , bacon fat, or duck fat, for ﬂavor or to make up
volume. Y ou will have the most control over the amount of
fat if you ﬁrst pour it all oﬀ and then measure back the
amount you need. Save any extra fat to use for cooking
other dishes later .
THE P AN JUICES  These are the drippings that are still
liquid. Y ou don’t always get a lot of them, though one
Thanksgiving in London I roasted a 14-pound/6.5-kilogram
turkey that produced about 1 quart/1 liter of delectable pan
juices—amazing.
THE BROWN BITS  These are the drippings that have
cooked onto the bottom of the pan, where they become
concentrated and caramelized. They are the ﬂavor power-
plants of your gravy and must be protected from burning
and from the cook wanting to snack on them.
THE THICKENER  I always use all-purpose ﬂour because
it’s handy , but some cooks swear by W ondra ﬂour , a brand
of so-called instant ﬂour engineered not to form lumps, and
other cooks use cornstarch. I don’t like the way cornstarch
sets—slightly gel-like—so, again, all-purpose ﬂour works
best for me.THE METHOD
Read through these steps a few times before you embark
on making gravy so that you understand how the steps ﬂow
from one to the other . After that, you can use this “cheat
sheet” to remind you of what to do next.
1. Set the meat or poultry roast on a platter that allows you
to capture more juices, which are sure to ﬂow . Or, put it
on a cutting board resting on a rimmed baking sheet.
Tent the roast with aluminum foil.
2. Without scraping or disturbing anything, gently pour oﬀ
the juices and fat into a gravy separator or tall
measuring cup. A void vigorous movement that will
create turbulence that can emulsify the fat into the
juices. Y ou want them to remain as separate as
possible.
Leave the juices and fat to settle, then spoon or pour oﬀ
the fat into another container .
3. Put your roasting pan over a couple of stove-top burners
and turn the heat to medium. If your pan ﬁts over only
one, be sure to slide it around as needed to heat all of
the surfaces evenly . Bring things to a gentle sizzle
before adding anything. This allows any lingering free-
running juice to caramelize, too . The French call this
pincer les sucs (paan say lay SOOK), or roughly “to
tighten the meat juices.”
4. Add the measured amount of fat to the pan. Use 1 tbsp
fat per 1 cup/240 ml liquid. Now add the ﬂour (1 1/2 tbsp
per 1 cup/240 ml liquid). Whisk the fat and ﬂour
together rapidly , incorporating the brown bits that wantto come along, but don’t worry about scraping them all
up. The rest of them will dissolve later . Just take care
that nothing is burning. This is your roux.
When the roux is smooth, turn the heat to low and
cook, whisking constantly , for about 1 minute more, to
develop some ﬂavors in the ﬂour .
5. Now begin pouring in the broth while whisking rapidly .
The key is to stay ahead of the lumps, whisking so
quickly that the roux absorbs and blends with the liquid
before it has a chance to get too thick.
If you do see lumps developing, don’t worry . Just add a
bit more liquid and whisk until you work them out. If
they are intractable, you can strain them out later , so
carry on with the rest of the liquid.
At this point, all of the good brown bits should be
dissolved. If they are not, give them a scrape to
dislodge.
6. Pour in the defatted pan drippings that you collected
earlier and simmer the gravy for a minute or two, then
evaluate it.
HOW MUCH FAT TO FLOUR TO LIQUID?
A nice serving of gravy is 1/3 cup/75 ml per person,
meaning 1 cup/240 ml gravy serves three people.
For 1 cup gravy , you will need the following:
1 tbsp fat
11/2 tbsp ﬂour1 to 1 1/2 cups/240 to 360 ml broth, depending on how
much you need to reduce to achieve good ﬂavor
Because I like having leftover gravy , which I use in all
kinds of dishes , my goal is always to make as much
gravy as my pan drippings and broth supply will
allow .
HOW ’S THE CONSISTENCY?  Too thick? Add more broth.
Too thin? Simmer the gravy a little longer to concentrate
and thicken it. Alternatively , thicken it by working in a
slurry or beurre manié . Lumpy? A t the end of cooking, you
can put it through a ﬁne-mesh sieve.
HOW ’S THE FLA VOR? You’ll probably need to season with
salt, unless the drippings were highly salted, which might
be the case if the roast was brined or you used a canned
broth that was salty . How’s the meatiness? Is there enough
depth of ﬂavor? Y ou can heighten the ﬂavor by simmering
the gravy to reduce and concentrate it. Be careful you don’t
cook oﬀ all of your volume, however , and end up with a
spoonful of gravy .
If the juices were not suﬀiciently plentiful to give the gravy
enough savoriness, it is ﬁne to cheat. In fact, I encourage
it. If you have some homemade broth, reduce it until it is
powerfully concentrated and then add it to the gravy . (This
isn’t really cheating, of course, because the broth was
made from scratch.) If you do not have homemade broth,
use canned reduced-sodium chicken broth from the pantry .
Another option is a packaged demi-glace, such as More
Than Gourmet’s glace de poulet for poultry or glace de
viande for meats. These are hard pastes that you dilute
with water . I add a few teaspoons to the gravy and then
taste.I also like Savory Choice, which comes in small tubes like
ketchup packets. The ﬂavor of the chicken and the turkey is
quite good, and I use them all of the time. The beef is
disappointing, so even with meat dishes, I use the turkey .
QUICK THICKENERS
BEURRE MANIÉ
Literally “worked butter ,” beurre manié (pronounced
buhr mah NY AY) is slightly softened butter into which you
have worked ﬂour . I use a fork or my ﬁngers to mash the
butter and ﬂour into a paste. Y ou then whisk small bits of
the paste into simmering gravy (or stew or whatever you
want to thicken), stopping when you are happy with the
consistency .
It takes a few minutes for the starch in the ﬂour to
absorb and expand, so give it some time before you add
more. The downside of beurre manié is that you are
adding more fat to the gravy , which isn’t necessarily a
bad thing, of course, but you need to keep it in mind. And
once you have added the last bit, simmer the gravy for
another minute or so to cook oﬀ any raw ﬂour ﬂavor
before you declare it ready .
SLURRY
This is water and ﬂour or cornstarch mixed together and
added to the gravy in the same way as you add beurre
manié, with the gravy at a simmer and whisking in a
small amount at a time until the consistency is good.
Always allow a minute or so for the gravy to thicken
before evaluating the consistency . And once theconsistency is good, simmer the gravy for another minute
or so to cook oﬀ any raw starch taste.
Slurries are simple to pull together , but they dilute the
sauce by adding water . Cornstarch and water are easy to
blend; ﬂour and water can get lumpy if you are not
careful. Despite the ease with cornstarch, as noted
earlier , I prefer the consistency of ﬂour-thickened gravy .
WHAT TO DO WITH LEFTOVER GRAVY
Other than the obvious—hot turkey or roast beef
sandwiches or reheating leftovers—I exploit my gravy
good fortune in the following ways:
as a binder and ﬂavoring for hash, added to the
potatoes, onions, and meat during the last few
minutes of cooking, so it sizzles a bit
as a pasta sauce, mix ed with grated P armigiano -
Reggiano cheese, fr esh lemon juice, fr esh herbs, and a
little pasta cooking water
to enrich a vegetable soup such as minestr one
to mak e a quick cassoulet, combining canned white
beans, chopped canned tomatoes, and the gravy in a
baking dish, tucking some good sausage into the
beans, and baking until bubbling
to ﬂavor Classic Sher ry Vinaigr ette for using on a
green salad that accompanies cold r oast poultry or
meat or for using on war m smashed new potatoes
Finally , in a pinch, you can use a bouillon cube. Start with
half a cube to make sure you don’t end up with a gravy that
is too salty or tastes like it has been artiﬁcially ﬂavored.Youcan also boost the umami proﬁle by adding a spoonful
of dark miso or a few drops of soy sauce or W orcestershire
sauce.
DO YOU W ANT TO ADD OTHER FLA VORS?  I am usually a
purist when it comes to gravy , but here are a handful of
enhancements that won’t overpower its natural goodness:
small amount of chopped fr esh thyme or ﬂat-leaf
parsley, or a tiny bit of chopped fr esh tar ragon,
especially with chick en
splash of heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche just to r ound oﬀ
sharp edges and enhance the te xture, but not to mak e it
creamy—cr eam gravy is a whole thing of its own
small spoonful of Dijon mustar d
few dr ops of Cognac
squeeze of fr esh lemon juice
DO YOU NEED TO STRAIN?  I’m lazy and don’t like to take
unnecessary steps in the kitchen, so I only strain my gravy
if it has ﬂour-lump issues (which can happen even to an
experienced cook). If it is a matter of a few bits of chicken
skin or onion, I leave the gravy au natural. T o strain, use a
large ﬁne-mesh sieve that can be positioned over a big
liquid measuring cup or a bowl with a spout to make it easy
to pour the ﬁnal sauce into a gravy boat or pitcher .
ALL-PURPOSE TURKEY BROTH
A few years ago, after repeated frustration from trying to
make a chicken broth that tasted like something, I realized
I was working with the wrong bird. Modern chickens—even
their backs, necks, and wings—just don’t have much ﬂavor .
Turkey seemed more promising, and when I learned that I
could buy just turkey necks, I knew that was the way to go .Turkey necks have a lovely , sweet ﬂavor that is neutral
enough to work in all kinds of recipes. And because the
necks are full of cartilage, they give broth lots of body—so
much body that the broth will gel once it is cold. If you
can’t ﬁnd necks, you can use other turkey parts in this
recipe, such as wings or drumsticks.
An aside on terminology: Some sources insist that the term
broth is correct only when bones with some meat on them
are used, and the term stock is correct when bones without
meat are used. I have used the word broth throughout the
book. F or me, what is important is whether it tastes good
and is not overly salty , so that you can use it in reduced
sauces.
The bonus with turkey-neck broth is that the meat is
delicious—moist and silky , though not easy to extract (time
to use your ﬁngers)—and is good in salads, soups, tacos, or
risotto . And turkey necks are fairly inexpensive, so you can
create superior homemade broth for about the price of
canned.
I’ve created two versions of turkey broth here: a light one
in which the turkey and vegetables start out raw , and a
dark one in which you must roast or sauté everything
before you simmer it in water .
I never feel wealthier than when I have a freezer full of
homemade broth, packed in ziplock bags, labeled, and
ready for action. Freeze the broth in amounts that make
sense for your style of cooking, such as 1 cup/240 milliliters
or 4 cups/960 milliliters. Be sure to label each bag with the
quantity and the date.
LIGHT TURKEY BROTH
MAKES ABOUT 4 QT/3.8 L
3 lb/1.4 kg turk ey necks
1 celery stalk
1/2 yellow onion
5 qt/4.7 L water
Kosher salt (optional)
In a large pot, combine the turkey necks, celery , onion, and
water and bring to a boil over high heat. Immediately turn
down the heat to a bare simmer and cook, uncovered, for
21/2 to 3 1/2 hours. During the ﬁrst hour or so, you will
notice foamy scum forming on the surface. Use a large
spoon to skim it oﬀ . If you want to retrieve the turkey meat
while it still has some ﬂavor , use tongs to pull out the necks
after about 2 hours, pick oﬀ the meat, and return the bones
to the pot to ﬁnish simmering. The broth is ready when it
has a good rich ﬂavor .
Remove the pot from the heat. P our or ladle the broth
through a ﬁne-mesh sieve placed over a clean container .
You should have about 4 qt/3.8 L broth, which is a good
intensity for an all-purpose broth. If you want to season the
broth with salt, stir it in now . Let cool, skim oﬀ any visible
fat, and transfer to storage containers. Cover and
refrigerate for 1 week or freeze for up to 4 months.
DARK TURKEY BROTHMAKES ABOUT 4 QT/3.8 L
1 tbsp canola or other neutral vegetable oil
3 lb/1.4 kg turk ey necks
1 celery stalk
1/2 yellow onion
5 qt/4.7 L water
Kosher salt (optional)
TO SAUTÉ THE INGREDIENTS:  in a wide frying pan, heat
the oil over medium-high heat. Add the turkey necks,
reduce the heat to medium-low , add the vegetables, and
cook, turning the necks and stirring and ﬂipping the
vegetables so they brown evenly , until everything is deeply
browned, about 40 minutes.
TO ROAST THE INGREDIENTS:  heat the oven to
400°F/200°C/gas 6. Drizzle the oil over a rimmed baking
sheet or roasting pan, arrange the turkey necks and
vegetables in the pan, and roast until everything is nicely
browned, 40 to 50 minutes.
Transfer the sautéed or roasted turkey and vegetables to a
big pot. P our oﬀ the fat from the pan, add about 1/2 cup/120
ml of the water , and stir to dissolve the brown bits on the
pan bottom. P our the contents of the pan into the pot and
add the remaining water . Bring to a boil over high heat,
immediately turn down the heat to a bare simmer , and
cook, uncovered, for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 hours. During the ﬁrst
hour or so, you will notice foamy scum forming on the
surface. Use a large spoon to skim it oﬀ . If you want to
retrieve the turkey meat while it still has some ﬂavor , use
tongs to pull out the necks after about 2 hours, pick oﬀ themeat, and return the bones to the pot to ﬁnish simmering.
The broth is ready when it has a good rich ﬂavor .
Remove the pot from the heat. P our or ladle the broth
through a ﬁne-mesh sieve placed over a clean container .
You should have about 4 qt/3.8 L of broth, which is a good
intensity for an all-purpose broth. If you want to season the
broth with salt, stir it in now . Let cool, skim oﬀ any visible
fat, and transfer to storage containers. Cover and
refrigerate for 1 week or freeze for up to 4 months.JUS
My deﬁnition of a jus is a sauce made by dissolving pan
juices with another liquid. It could be as elemental as
boiling a little water in the bottom of your roasting pan, or
it can be a more complex jus for which you sauté an
aromatic vegetable ﬁrst, deglaze the pan with a wine or
spirit, add broth, and ﬁnish with a little cream.Unlike a starch-thickened gravy , a jus is thickened only by
reduction and/or whisking in some cream or butter to
ﬁnish, and generally it is so intense that you drizzle only a
small amount onto your food—no mashed-potato swimming
pools full of jus. I like to make a jus from a roast chicken or
pork loin, for example, when my accompanying dishes don’t
include potatoes. A drizzle of jus from a lemony roast
chicken or rosemary-scented pork loin can unite your roast
and your side dishes and add a note of polish to the meal.
Many of the elements of a jus are the same as they are for a
gravy , including the pan, the aromatics, the liquids, and the
pan juices, so you should review that information on page
162. T wo elements are diﬀerent: THE F AT Because you are
not making a roux for thickening, you don’t need extra fat
in a jus. In fact, you want the jus to be as clean and fat free
as possible, other than the butter or cream you might
choose to add as a ﬁnish. So you must separate all of the
fat from the drippings, perhaps saving it to use for cooking
other dishes later , such as potatoes or beans.
THE THICKENER  Because by deﬁnition a jus is not
thickened, you do not need any ﬂour , cornstarch, or other
thickener .
THE METHOD
Read through the gravy method  and the modiﬁcations
below a few times before you start to make a jus.
Follow steps 1 through 3 for making gravy , then skip step 4,
which directs you to add fat and ﬂour .
Follow step 5, but just add the broth without worrying
about lumps, because there is no ﬂour to get lumpy .Follow step 6, but because a jus is meant to be thin, you
need to use diﬀerent criteria to evaluate the consistency . It
should have some body so that it is more viscous than
broth. T o achieve this, simmer the liquid to reduce it, which
concentrates the ﬂavor , as well. Y ou also can whisk in a
little butter at the end to impart body without altering the
intensity of the jus.
PAN SAUCE
This is the sauce that you make in the sauté pan after you
have cooked your main ingredient—a ﬁlet mignon, a
chicken breast, some pork medallions. The goal is to
capture the savory cooked-on juices left in the pan, which
you do by deglazing, or dissolving with a liquid. This type of
sauce is sometimes called à la minute (ah la mee NUTE),
meaning instantly , and it is satisfying to make: it’s quick,
you don’t need a second pan, and when it’s well made, it
oﬀers a small amount of intensely ﬂavored sauce that
perfectly accents your main ingredient. And once you get
comfortable with the process, you can have fun
improvising. These are the sauces that make you feel like
an accomplished cook, or as my friend Amy Albert always
said, like a bloody genius.
As with a gravy , a pan sauce can include many other
elements, such as aromatics, ﬂavorful spirits or wines,
broths, and enrichments such as cream, butter , or cheese,
but usually no starch thickener .
The method and ingredients you use to make an à la minute
pan sauce are similar to those for a beurre blanc  or cream
sauce , but the diﬀerence is that you have pan juices, too,
and you are trying to make the sauce quickly , in that pan,
before your main ingredient cools too much.THE METHOD
1. Sauté your ingredient. P erfect candidates for this type of
cooking include boneless, skinless chicken breasts,
duck breasts, pork chops, pork tenderloin medallions,
small steaks, hamburgers, lamb chops, scallops, and
shrimp. I like to dust the ingredient with seasoned
ﬂour, which helps create a nice browning on the food
and the small amount of ﬂour left in the pan has a
subtle thickening action on the sauce. But a pan sauce
can be made without using ﬂour .
For the fat, I use half butter and half oil. Butter
encourages browning and imparts ﬂavor , and oil
keeps the butter from burning.
2. Set your cooked meat (let’s just call it that for
simplicity’s sake) on a plate or other dish that will
catch any juices that run and tent with aluminum foil to
keep warm. As you do this, don’t leave the pan on the
burner because you might burn the juices.
3. Pour oﬀ any loose fat, but take care not to pour oﬀ any
ﬂoating brown bits. Those are the tasty parts that are
the keys to ﬂavor in the sauce.
4. Return the pan to medium-high heat.
5. Add your aromatic ingredient, if using one, and sauté
brieﬂy so it softens but doesn’t brown, 30 seconds to 1
minute. Then, add your ﬁrst liquid, which will probably
be something with a strong ﬂavor—brandy , wine, port,
or vinegar—an ingredient that needs to be tamed by
reduction but will also provide a backbone of intense
ﬂavor to the sauce. Cook the liquid until it has
evaporated—reduced—to just a spoonful or so . You
want a ﬂavorful essence without the harsh qualities of
the original liquid.6. Now , add the next liquid. This is what will make up the
bulk of the sauce. The most common liquid is some kind
of broth. Homemade broth is best, of course, but if you
use a canned broth, choose a reduced-sodium one.
When you reduce any liquid that contains salt, the
saltiness becomes more concentrated. Cook this liquid
down by about two-thirds.
7. Add some ﬂavor accents. This might be Dijon mustard,
fresh herbs, fresh fruit, black olives, green
peppercorns, or the like. Y ou want to use an ingredient
that will taste great in the sauce but won’t require a lot
of transformation.
8. Enrich the sauce with cream or butter . At this point, you
have a lot of concentrated ﬂavors, including some
sharp ones, and you need to decide whether everything
tastes good just as it is, or whether you need to polish
oﬀ the sharp edges with cream or butter . Keep in mind
that such fats don’t just enrich a sauce, they also
unlock and spread ﬂavors, so that even a small amount
can be a catalyst to the other ﬂavors in the sauce.
9. The last decision is whether you want to strain or not. I
generally don’t strain because I don’t mind texture, but
if you’re looking for those few drops of perfectly
smooth essence, then strain.
10. Taste and adjust your seasoning.
GUIDELINE AMOUNTS FOR SAUCE
INGREDIENTS
Because I think this type of sauce is all about improvising
and responding to what you have in your sauté pan, I am
not giving traditional recipes for pan sauces. Instead, I’m
giving proportions of ingredients and ideas that you can
play with to create interesting sauces. Y ou will need toadjust and adapt, but some great starting points are on the
following page.
For four chops, chicken breasts, steaks, or the like, use the
following amounts: AROMA TICS  1 tablespoon ﬁnely
chopped shallot, onion, leek, mushroom, or other mild
aromatic and/or 1 teaspoon ﬁnely chopped garlic, fresh
chile, peeled fresh ginger , or other strong aromatic
LIQUIDS  1/4 cup/60 milliliters wine, spirits, vinegar , or
other strong liquid and/or 3/4 cup/180 milliliters homemade
or canned reduced-sodium broth, fruit juice, hard cider , or
other mild liquid ACCENTS  Fresh herb sprigs and/or 1
teaspoon to 1 tablespoon accent ingredient such as Dijon
mustard, soy sauce, green peppercorns, capers, or chopped
fresh herbs ENRICHMENTS  1 to 4 tablespoons crème
fraîche or heavy cream and/or 1 to 2 tablespoons unsalted
butter
TO GET YOU STARTED, HERE ARE TEN
GREAT COMBINATIONS:
1. Chopped shallot
Balsamic vinegar
Turkey or chicken broth
Dijon mustard, chopped fresh rosemary
Unsalted butter
2. Minced garlic
Madeira
Turkey or chicken broth
Sliced fresh basil
Heavy cream
3. Thinly sliced yellow onion
Calvados, then white wineApple cider
Dijon mustard, chopped fresh thyme
Crème fraîche
4. Chopped shallot
Fresh lemon juice
Turkey or chicken broth
Chopped fresh tarragon
Crème fraîche
5. Chopped fresh chile, minced garlic
Balsamic vinegar
Fresh orange juice
Unsalted butter
6. Chopped shallot
Dry white wine
Turkey or chicken broth
Dijon mustard, capers, ﬁnely chopped cornichon,
chopped fresh ﬂat-leaf parsley
Unsalted butter
7. Chopped shallot
Cognac or brandy
Turkey or chicken broth
Dijon mustard, cracked green peppercorns
Crème fraîche
Lot of freshly ground black pepper
8. Chopped shallot and fresh chile
Sherry vinegar , crushed fresh blackberries or
raspberries
Turkey or chicken broth
Fresh rosemary sprig
Unsalted butter9. Chopped shallot and chile, minced garlic
Dry white wine
Turkey or chicken broth
Peeled, seeded, and ﬁnely diced tomato
Finely grated lime zest, chopped fresh cilantro
Unsalted butter
10. Chopped shallot, ﬁnely chopped mushroom
Cognac or brandy
Dry red wine
Turkey or chicken broth
Dijon mustard
Crème fraîcheSABAYON SAUCES
SABA YON IS THE SWEET SISTER TO HOLLANDAISE.
CALLED ZABAGLIONE IN IT ALY, sabayon gets its luscious,
ﬂowing consistency and rich ﬂavor from whipping egg
yolks over very low heat, just like hollandaise. But unlike
hollandaise, sabayon does not include any butter . It is
simply egg yolks, sugar (or honey), and traditionally a
sweet fortiﬁed wine, such as Marsala. I love the slightly
boozy character that comes with this kind of sauce, but I
also like to make sabayon with ﬂavorings that are not
alcoholic.
Sabayon can be a dessert all on its own, eaten from a coupe
or wineglass for a special touch. It is especially good when
you fold in some whipped cream, pile the whole thing in a
pretty glass, chill it, and then eat it like a mousse. Or , you
can take that lightened sabayon and use it as a delicious
and surprising alternative to plain whipped cream on a
berry shortcake. As a sauce, however , it’s gorgeous over
fresh fruit, especially berries and stone fruits such as
apricots, peaches, and plums, or as a complement to a fruit
galette or tart.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
A great sabayon is primarily about texture, and texture in
this case is achieved by juggling time and temperature. Y ou
start by whisking egg yolks with sugar (or other sweetener)
and fortiﬁed wine (or other ﬂavorings) over low heat,
usually in a double boiler (unless you’re a daredevil). As theheat slowly cooks the yolks, they thicken and trap the air
bubbles that you are incorporating with your vigorous
whisking. The process should proceed at a pace that allows
you to whisk in lots of air before the yolks are cooked to the
point where they won’t expand any more. If the heat is too
low, your mixture will never thicken. And while the sugar
and wine provide a certain amount of protection for the
yolks, if the heat is too high, the yolks risk setting before
they are at their loftiest. In the worst case, they’ll
”scramble.”
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
If you ﬁnd yourself with a sabayon that’s too runny but
you’ve already taken it oﬀ the heat, the best thing to do is
fold in some ﬁrm whipped cream and pretend you wanted
this style of sauce all along. I’ve never had success trying
to recook a loose sabayon. If your problem is an overcooked
sabayon with bits of cooked yolk in it, you can push it
through a ﬁne-mesh sieve, though you will lose some
volume doing that. Y ou may want to boost it with some
whipped cream, too .
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
Sabayons are rich but they’re also quite airy , so an average
serving might be 2 to 3 tablespoons per person, and a bit
more for sauces that have been enriched with whipped
cream.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENTYou need the same equipment for making a sabayon that
you need for making its savory sister , hollandaise. That
includes a double-boiler setup of a wide, medium
stainlesssteel bowl and a medium saucepan, a good whisk
and a strong arm or a handheld electric mixer , and a heat-
resistant rubber spatula for scraping the sides of the bowl
as you whisk and to fold in any whipped cream.
STORAGE
Warm sabayon won’t hold for more than about 30 minutes
in the double boiler over very low heat, so it is best made
just before serving. A chilled sabayon lightened with
whipped cream can be refrigerated in an airtight container
for up to 24 hours. 
CLASSIC SABAYON
MAKES 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
This sauce is perfect for whipping up on the spur of the
moment for guests. I mean, you always have eggs and
sugar in the kitchen, right? And a search through your
cupboard where those rarely drunk spirits hang out is sure
to yield something usable. Be sure to taste the wine or
spirit ﬁrst to determine how sweet it is and then adjust
your sugar up or down accordingly .
4 egg yolks
1/4 cup plus 1 tbsp/65 g granulated sugar
1/3 cup/75 ml sweet fortiﬁed wine such as Marsala, Madeira,
or port
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainlesssteel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the water .
Put the egg yolks and sugar in the bowl and, using a whisk
or a handheld electric mixer on medium-high speed, begin
beating together the yolks and sugar . After about 1 minute,
add the wine and continue beating. As the bowl heats up,
the yolks will begin to thicken. Beat vigorously , scraping
around the bowl with a heat-resistant rubber spatula from
time to time so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck and
overcook. Beat until thick and frothy but not quite ﬂuﬀy , 8to 10 minutes by hand or 4 to 5 minutes with the mixer . It
is ready when it forms a thick ribbon as it trails oﬀ the end
of the whisk or beater . Remove the bowl from the heat and
beat for another 30 seconds or so to stabilize the sauce and
let the bowl cool down. If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  The sabayon is best eaten right af ter you mak e
it, but you can hold the sauce in the double boiler over very
low heat for up to 30 minutes.
QUICK CHANGE  To serve the sabayon cold, chill it. Whip 1/2
cup/120 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche until sof t peaks
form and fold the cr eam into the chilled sabayon just until
combined. Chill again for a few minutes to set. R efrigerate
any lef tovers in an airtight container for up to 1 day . 
HONEY-GINGER-TANGERINE SABAYON
MAKES 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
The ﬂavor of tangerine is soft and lovely and is nicely
ampliﬁed by the perfumed sweetness of honey , rather than
sugar . I reduce most of the tangerine juice to concentrate
its ﬂavor and reserve the balance to deliver a superfresh
note. This sabayon is lovely with berries or over a piece of
ﬂourless chocolate cake.
1 cup/240 ml fr esh tangerine juice
2 tbsp peeled and coarsely chopped fr esh ginger (fr om a 1-
oz/30-g piece)
4 egg yolks
1/4 cup plus 1 tbsp/75 ml honey
Pinch of k osher salt
In a small saucepan, combine 3/4 cup/180 ml of the
tangerine juice and the ginger and bring to a simmer over
medium-high heat. Simmer until reduced to about 3 tbsp, 6
to 8 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly .
Strain through a ﬁne-mesh sieve into a small bowl, pushing
on the ginger with a rubber spatula or wooden spoon to
force out all of its juice.Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainlesssteel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the water .
Put the egg yolks and honey in the bowl and, using a whisk
or a handheld electric mixer on medium-high speed, begin
beating together the yolks and honey . After about 1 minute,
add the reduced tangerine juice, the remaining 1/4 cup
fresh juice, and the salt and continue beating. As the bowl
heats up, the yolks will begin to thicken. Beat vigorously ,
scraping around the bowl with a heat-resistant rubber
spatula from time to time so that bits of yolk don’t get stuck
and overcook. Beat until thick and frothy but not quite
ﬂuﬀy , 8 to 10 minutes by hand or 4 to 5 minutes with the
mixer . It is ready when it forms a thick ribbon as it trails oﬀ
the end of the whisk or beater . Remove the bowl from the
heat and beat for another 30 seconds or so to stabilize the
sauce and let the bowl cool down. Serve right away .
STORAGE  The sabayon is best eaten right af ter you mak e
it, but you can hold the sauce in the double boiler over very
low heat for up to 30 minutes.
QUICK CHANGE
Use orange juice instead of tangerine juice; simmer 2 tbsp
Grand Mar nier or other orange liqueur with the citrus juice.
To serve the sabayon cold, chill it. Whip 1/2 cup/120 ml
heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche until sof t peaks for m and fold
the cr eam into the chilled sabayon just until combined. Chill
again for a few minutes to set. R efrigerate any lef tovers in
an airtight container for up to 1 day . 
MAPLE-RUM SABAYON
MAKES 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
The deep, mellow sweetness of this sabayon is gorgeous
with fall fruits such as baked apples and poached pears,
and I especially love it with a prune and frangipane tart  I
learned to make from chef Claude V auget at La V arenne
cooking school. The French know how wonderful prunes
can be.
Grade B maple syrup will give you the best ﬂavor . I’ve
never understood why the syrup that tastes the best gets
the second-best grade.
4 egg yolks
1/4 cup/60 ml grade B maple syrup
2 tbsp lightly pack ed dark br own sugar
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
1/4 cup/60 ml dark rum
1/4 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainlesssteel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the water .
Put the egg yolks, maple syrup, brown sugar , and salt in the
bowl and, using a whisk or a handheld electric mixer onmedium-high speed, begin beating them together . After
about 1 minute, add the rum and continue beating. As the
bowl heats up, the yolks will begin to thicken. Beat
vigorously , scraping around the sides of the bowl with a
heat-resistant rubber spatula from time to time so that bits
of yolk don’t get stuck and overcook. Beat until thick and
frothy but not quite ﬂuﬀy , 8 to 10 minutes by hand or 4 to 5
minutes with the mixer . It is ready when it forms a thick
ribbon as it trails oﬀ the end of the whisk or beater .
Remove the bowl from the heat and beat for another 30
seconds or so to stabilize the sauce and let the bowl cool
down. If possible, serve right away .
STORAGE  The sabayon is best eaten right af ter you mak e
it, but you can hold the sauce in the double boiler over very
low heat for up to 30 minutes.
QUICK CHANGE
Use brandy, Cognac, or bourbon instead of the rum.
To serve the sabayon cold, chill it. Whip 1/2 cup/120 ml
heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche until sof t peaks for m and fold
the cr eam into the chilled sabayon just until combined. Chill
again for a few minutes to set. R efrigerate any lef tovers in
an airtight container for up to 1 day .
GRILLED FIGS with CLASSIC SABAYON and
BALSAMIC DRIZZLE
SERVES 6 TO 8Here are the elements of a
perfect August dinner party: a
deck, some friends, a cold bottle
(or three) of Grüner V eltliner ,
salumi, white beans in olive oil,
platters of grilled vegetables,
and.then these ﬁgs, cooked over
the slow warmth of the last
embers in the grill.
You can reduce the balsamic
ahead of time, but make the
sabayon at the last minute. It is a
fun sauce to make in front of an
audience, and you can get your friends to help with the
whisking.
1/2 cup/120 ml balsamic vinegar
18 to 24 ripe ﬁgs, halved lengthwise
2 tbsp canola or other neutral vegetable oil or a mild olive
oil
2 tbsp granulated sugar
11/4 cups/300 ml Classic Sabayon
6 to 8 amar etti, crumbled
In a small saucepan, bring the vinegar to a simmer over
medium heat. Cook until reduced by about half , 5 to 7
minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool completely .
Prepare a medium ﬁre in a charcoal or gas grill. Or ,
position an oven rack about 5 in/12 cm from the boiler
element and heat the broiler . If using a grill, the ﬁre is
ready when you can comfortably hold your hand, palm-side
down, 4 in/10 cm above the grill rack for 4 seconds. Brush
the grill rack so that it is perfectly clean.In a medium bowl, toss the ﬁgs with the oil, coating them
evenly . Arrange them, cut-side up, on a large rimmed
baking sheet. Sprinkle the cut sides with the sugar . If
grilling, transfer the ﬁgs to the grill rack, sugared-side up,
cover the grill, and grill the ﬁgs until they have softened
slightly and the sugar starts to bubble a bit, 7 to 9 minutes.
If broiling, place the ﬁgs on the baking sheet under the
broiler and broil to the same end for the same amount of
time.
Transfer the ﬁgs to a serving platter . Spoon the warm
sabayon over the ﬁgs, drizzle the balsamic reduction over
everything, and then sprinkle the amaretti over the top.
Serve right away .
JUMBLE OF BERRIES with GRATINÉED
HONEY-GINGER-TANGERINE SABAYON
SERVES 4 TO 6
I like the warm-cool temperature contrast of this dish and
the way the berry juices mingle with the rich sabayon on
the plate. A mix of fresh summer berries will give you the
most complexity here, but using just one or two types is
lovely as well. If you are lucky enough to live in blackberry
country , they are wonderful in this dish. Be sure to taste
your berries ﬁrst, and if they’re tart, add a touch more
sugar .
11/2 lb/680 g mix ed ber ries (if using strawber ries, hull and
halve lengthwise if lar ge)2 tbsp granulated sugar
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon or lime zest
11/2 cups/300 ml Honey -Ginger -Tangerine Sabayon
Position an oven rack about 5 in/12 cm from the broiler
element and heat the broiler .
In a large bowl, toss the berries with half of the sugar and
all of the lemon zest until combined. Transfer to a shallow
2-qt/2-L broiler-safe baking dish or gratin dish.
Evenly spread the warm sabayon over the berries and
sprinkle evenly with the remaining sugar . Broil, rotating
the dish from back to front after 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes, until
the sabayon is browned in spots, 3 to 5 minutes. Let cool
brieﬂy , then serve warm.
RUM-SOAKED PRUNE and FRANGIPANE
TART with MAPLE-RUM SABAYON
MAKES ONE 9-IN/23-CM T ART; SERVES 6 TO 8
Prunes are underappreciated in the United States, and I
have no idea why . Meaty , sweet, and complex, they’re even
more delicious when plumped up with some dark spirits
such as rum, Cognac, or bourbon. I love those warm ﬂavors
paired with almonds, so I ﬁll this tart shell with an almond
frangipane and nestle the prunes inside. The touch of
maple and the boozy bite in the sabayon marry perfectly
with the other ﬂavors.24 to 30 meaty prunes, pitted
1/2 cup/120 ml dark rum such as Myers’s
CRUST
11/2 cups/190 g unbleached all-purpose ﬂour, plus mor e for
rolling
1/2 cup/65 g cak e ﬂour
1 tbsp granulated sugar
11/4 tsp k osher salt
1/8 tsp gr ound cinnamon
2/3 cup/140 g cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces,
plus 1 tbsp, melted, for the pan
1/2 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
1 egg yolk
Ice water, as needed
FRANGIP ANE
7 tbsp/100 g unsalted butter, at war m room temperatur e
1 cup/100 g confectioners’ sugar
11/4 cups/175 g blanched almonds, ﬁnely gr ound2 large eggs
1/2 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
11/4 cups/300 ml Maple-R um Sabayon
In a medium saucepan, combine the prunes and rum and
bring to a simmer over medium heat. Simmer for 2 to 3
minutes to cook oﬀ some of the alcohol, then remove from
the heat. Leave the prunes to soak until they are quite soft,
at least 2 hours or up to overnight.
TO MAKE THE CRUST , in a food processor , combine both
ﬂours, the granulated sugar , salt, and cinnamon and pulse
until blended. Scatter the butter pieces over the top, add
the vanilla, and pulse just until the mixture looks like
coarse sand. Add the egg yolk and pulse brieﬂy just to
blend. The dough should be coming together .
Dump the dough onto a clean work surface and blend the
ingredients further by pushing the dough, a little bit at a
time, away from you with the heel of your hand, so that you
“smear” the ingredients together on the work surface. (This
technique is called fraisage in French, and it yields a very
tender crust.) If the dough seems dry , sprinkle a tiny bit of
ice water onto it as you smear . Using a rubber spatula or
bench scraper and your hands, scrape the dough together
and shape it into a ﬂat disk. W rap in plastic wrap and
refrigerate until ﬁrm, about 30 minutes. (Y ou can make the
dough ahead and refrigerate it for up to 2 days or freeze it
for up to 2 months. Thaw frozen dough in the refrigerator
overnight.)
Brush the bottom and sides of a 9-in/23-cm tart pan with a
removable bottom with the melted butter .
Remove the dough from the refrigerator and let it sit at
room temperature to soften slightly . It should be cold andﬁrm but not rock hard. Depending on how long the dough
was refrigerated, this can take 5 to 20 minutes. Lightly
ﬂour the work surface, place the dough on it, and roll out
into a round 12 in/30.5 cm in diameter and in/3 mm thick.
Gently roll the dough around the rolling pin and transfer it
to the prepared tart pan, centering it over the pan. Unroll
the dough from the pin, draping it gently so you can center
it without stretching. Lift the outer edges of the dough to
give you enough slack to line the sides of the pan without
stretching the dough. Gently press the dough onto the
bottom and sides of the pan. Trim the excess from the rim
and press against the sides so the edges of the crust are
neat and tall. Chill for at least 30 minutes or up to
overnight.
(You can also wrap and freeze the crust for up to 1 month
and then bake it later . When it’s time to bake the crust,
don’t thaw it. Instead, just add a few minutes to the baking
time.)
Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C/gas 6. If you have a heavy
baking sheet, put it in the oven to heat, too; this will help
the underside of the crust to brown.
Line the chilled tart crust with parchment paper or
aluminum foil and ﬁll it with pie weights or dried beans.
Place on the heated baking sheet (if using) and bake until
the edges seem ﬁrm, slightly dry , and are beginning to
color (but don’t let the crust actually brown), about 10
minutes.
Remove the tart pan from the oven and remove the pie
weights and the parchment. Reduce the oven temperature
to 325°F/165°C/gas 3 and return the crust to the oven.
Bake until the center of the crust looks dry , about 10
minutes more. Let cool completely on a rack while youprepare the frangipane. R aise the oven temperature to
350°F/180°C/gas 4.
TO MAKE THE FRANGIP ANE,  in a food processor , combine
the butter and confectioners’ sugar and process until ﬂuﬀy .
Add the almonds and process until blended. Add the eggs
and vanilla and process just until combined. Do not
overprocess or the frangipane may separate.
Carefully and evenly spread the frangipane in the cooled
tart crust. Drain the prunes and blot dry on a paper towel.
Arrange the prunes in a pretty pattern over the frangipane,
pressing them slightly to nestle them in it.
Bake the tart until the frangipane is light brown and puﬀy ,
25 to 35 minutes. Let cool on a rack. Serve slightly warm or
at room temperature. Remove the pan sides and slide the
tart onto a serving plate. Cut into slices and place on
individual plates. Spoon a thick ribbon of the warm sabayon
around each slice.CUSTARD SAUCES
CUST ARD SAUCE HAS THE ENVIABLE ABILITY TO MO VE
FROM HOMEY TO ELEGANT , DEPENDING ON WHA T IT’S
BEING SER VED WITH AND WHA T NAME IT GOES B Y.
When it’s called custard, it’s comforting and old-fashioned,
and you can almost see the English country cook in a
striped apron pouring it over a slice of cake. When it’s
called crème anglaise, it’s soignée and dressy , making any
dessert plate feel like Limoges china.
The ﬁrst time I tasted real custard—make that crème
anglaise—was at cooking school in P aris, so for me this
delicate concoction of egg yolks, sugar , and milk or cream
is all about ﬁnesse. It’s a rich but subtle ﬁnishing touch to
any dessert.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
Custards are all about protein coagulation. That doesn’t
sound too appetizing, of course, but it’s what you want to
happen. The coagulation of the proteins in eggs is what
thickens a custard and is the key to getting the most
appealing, satiny texture in this sauce. If the egg yolks get
too hot, they’ll coagulate too much, and you’ll end up with a
curdled texture or outright bits of cooked egg.
There are two steps to avoiding curdling and developing
just the right degree of thickening. The ﬁrst is to temper
the yolks, which you’ve whisked together with sugar . This
means gently introducing the yolks to heat by whisking alittle hot milk or cream into them (so they don’t overcook or
cook too quickly). The hot liquid helps the egg proteins
start to relax and uncoil, which is the ﬁrst phase of
thickening.
The second step is to add the tempered mixture back to the
hot liquid and then slowly cook it together over low heat
until thickened. The slower you cook the sauce, the more
control you have and the better the ﬁnal texture will be.
Higher heat causes the egg proteins to grab one another
and squeeze too tightly , which will take your sauce down
the path of curdling.
You also need to stir almost constantly to ensure the sauce
doesn’t thicken unevenly along the bottom and at the edges
of the pan. And custards thicken as they cool, so you have
to stop cooking them before you reach the desired
consistency .
You can test the doneness three diﬀerent ways. Y ou can
take the temperature of the sauce. A sauce that registers
180°F/82°C on an instant-read thermometer has the
thickness and consistency that I like. Or , use the “swipe”
test: dip a wooden spoon or heat-resistant rubber spatula
into the sauce, swipe your ﬁnger across the back of the
spoon or one side of the spatula, and if your ﬁnger leaves a
clear trail that doesn’t ﬁll in right away , the custard is
ready .
With experience, you’ll come to use the third testing
method, which is to observe the way the sauce sloshes in
the pan. As the sauce thickens, the movement will shift
from loose and liquidy to a ﬂow that just feels more
languid. It’s hard to describe, but pay attention as you use
the other two methods for judging doneness and soon you’lllearn to recognize when your custard is at just the right
point.
A perfectionist cook always strains a custard sauce as a
ﬁnal step, but I’m lazy so I don’t strain, unless I see
unwanted bits of egg to banish.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
The main danger with a custard sauce is that you overcook
it and it becomes gloppy , curdled, or lumpy . A certain
amount of overcooking can be remedied by passing the
sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve (which will strain out
actual bits of egg) and diluting it with a touch more milk or
cream. Y ou can also smooth out a slightly curdled sauce by
whizzing it in a blender or food processor and then
straining it. But a really overcooked custard sauce will
taste too eggy , so if you see “curds,” start again.
Undercooking can be a problem, too, leaving you with a
sauce that is more like wan eggnog. F ortunately , you can
just put the sauce back on low heat and cook it a little
longer , even if you cooked it the day before.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
This depends on how you are serving the sauce, of course,
but 3 to 4 tablespoons per person would be average.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
As with so many good things in cooking, custards require a
heavy saucepan. Traditionally , you use a wooden spoon to
stir custards and to test the thickness, but I prefer a heat-
resistant rubber spatula, which scrapes the pan beautifully .
An instant-read thermometer can help you ﬁnd the sweet
spot, but it is not obligatory . A ﬁne-mesh sieve is good for
straining.
STORAGE
I like to eat my custard sauces cool, not warm, so I make
them at least several hours or up to a day ahead of when I
plan to serve them. I ﬁnd that the ﬂavors mature with time,
too, so making these kinds of sauces ahead is deﬁnitely
recommended. But don’t make them too far ahead.
Custards get funky after about 5 days, and they don’t
freeze well, unless you actually churn them into an ice
cream.
DON’T LET THE SUGAR “COOK” THE YOLKS
Before you cook a custard sauce, you whisk together the
egg yolks and sugar . But you have to combine them
immediately—no dumping the sugar and yolks into a bowl
and leaving them to sit for a few minutes while you do
something else. That’s because the sugar is hygroscopic,
meaning it pulls moisture from nearby ingredients, in this
case the yolks. It’s like cooking the yolks without heat,
and it leaves behind little dry bits of yolk that will make
your sauce lumpy . 
CLASSIC VANILLA BEAN CRÈME ANGLAISE
MAKES ABOUT 2 1/2 CUPS/600 ML
So simple but so wonderful when it’s well executed: satin
smooth, lightly sweet, and perfumed with rich vanilla. Y ou
can use a high-quality pure vanilla extract instead of the
bean, if it’s more convenient. I think extract is ﬁne for most
dishes, but in this case, splitting and scraping the seeds
from the fragrant, leathery bean is a reminder that “plain”
vanilla comes from an exotic plant grown halfway around
the world. If you do use extract in this recipe, add 1/2
teaspoon just when you’ve ﬁnished cooking the custard.
2 cups/480 ml whole milk
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
4 egg yolks
1/4 cup/50 g granulated sugar
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
Heat the milk in a small saucepan over medium heat until it
is just starting to steam; do not let it boil. Using the tip of a
paring knife, scrape the vanilla seeds from the pod into the
milk and stir to mix. Add the scraped pod, remove the pan
from the heat, and let steep for about 30 minutes.Gently reheat the vanilla-infused milk over medium-low
heat until just beginning to simmer .
Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, whisk together the egg
yolks, sugar , and salt until well blended. Do not whisk so
much that the mixture gets foamy , however .
When the vanilla-infused milk is hot, slowly pour about half
of it into yolk -sugar mixture, whisking constantly until
combined. Return the pan to medium-low heat, then whisk
in the yolk mixture. Gently cook the sauce, frequently
scraping the bottom and sides of the pan with a heat-
resistant rubber spatula or a wooden spoon, until it
thickens, 3 to 5 minutes. It should register 180°F/82°C on
an instant-read thermometer .
Remove from the heat and remove and discard the vanilla
pod. F or a very smooth texture (or if you’re worried that
you’ve gotten some bits of overcooked egg in the sauce),
strain the sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve. Let cool, cover ,
and refrigerate until chilled, at least 1 hour .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE
Creamy  Use half -and-half or heavy cr eam instead of milk
for a richer sauce.
Spirited  Add 1 tbsp dark rum, brandy, Calvados, Grand
Marnier, F rangelico, or other liqueur or spirit to the sauce as
soon as it has ﬁnished cooking.
Espresso  Add 2 tsp instant espr esso powder to the milk or
cream as it heats.
Cocoa  Add 2 tbsp unsweetened cocoa powder to the milk or
cream befor e heating it. (T o avoid lumps, stir a smallamount of the milk or cr eam into the cocoa powder to mak e
a paste ﬁrst, then whisk in the r est of the milk.)
Cardamom-vanilla  Add 3 gr een or white car damom pods,
lightly crushed, with the vanilla. Strain the ﬁnished sauce. 
CREAMY LIME CRÈME ANGLAISE
MAKES ABOUT 2 1/2 CUPS/600 ML
I make this sauce a little richer (thanks to cream) than the
classic version because I like the way the sweet cream
ﬂavor plays oﬀ the perfume of the lime. This sauce is
beautiful served with a blueberry cobbler or pie, a rhubarb
crisp, a simple almond cake, and, of course, the rice
pudding and meringue cookies on page 190.
2 cups/480 ml heavy cr eam
4 egg yolks
1/3 cup/65 g granulated sugar
1/8 tsp k osher salt
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lime zest
Heat the cream in a small saucepan over medium heat until
it is just starting to steam; do not let it boil.
Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, whisk together the egg
yolks, sugar , and salt until well blended. Do not whisk so
much that the mixture gets foamy , however .
When the cream is hot, slowly pour about half of it into
yolk-sugar mixture, whisking constantly until combined.Return the pan to medium-low heat, then whisk in the yolk
mixture. Gently cook the sauce, frequently scraping the
bottom and sides of the pan with a heat-resistant rubber
spatula or a wooden spoon, until it thickens, 3 to 5 minutes.
It should register 180°F/82°C on an instant-read
thermometer .
Remove from the heat and stir in the lime juice and zest.
Taste and add a bit more juice if needed. F or a very smooth
texture (or if you’re worried that you’ve gotten some bits of
overcooked egg in the sauce), strain the sauce through a
ﬁne-mesh sieve. Let cool, cover , and refrigerate until
chilled, at least 1 hour .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Use fr esh Meyer lemon or orange juice and
zest in place of the lime juice and zest. 
COCOA-COCONUT CRÈME ANGLAISE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
I’m not sure my instructors at cooking school would have
approved of this version of the classic crème anglaise, but I
adore coconut milk and thought why not? The coconut milk
behaves beautifully in this egg-thickened sauce and
delivers a rich coconut ﬂavor . A standard can of coconut
milk holds 1 3/4 cups/400 milliliters, so with a full can you
can make a double batch of sauce, or save the rest of the
coconut milk for something else. Coconut milk freezes well,
too, or you might look for a smaller can at the store.
The cocoa powder is quite dominant in this sauce, so if you
would like a lighter chocolate ﬂavor , cut the cocoa to 2
teaspoons. This would be a lovely sauce to go with a slice of
ﬂourless chocolate cake, a scoop of chocolate-chunk bread
pudding, or a wedge of coconut Bundt cake like the one on
page 248.
1 tbsp Dutch-pr ocessed unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 cup plus 2 tbsp/220 ml canned coconut milk (stir
together the thick cr eam and thinner milk befor e
measuring)
2 egg yolks
3 tbsp granulated sugarPut the cocoa powder in a small bowl and add a few
spoonfuls of the coconut milk; stir to make a smooth paste
(it’s okay if a few lumps remain). Heat the remaining
coconut milk in a small saucepan over medium heat. When
hot, whisk in the cocoa-coconut milk paste and bring the
mixture to just below a simmer .
Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk together the eggs yolks
and sugar until well blended. Do not whisk so much that
the mixture gets foamy , however .
When the cocoa-infused coconut milk is hot, slowly pour
about half of it into the yolk -sugar mixture, whisking
constantly until combined. Return the pan to medium-low
heat, then whisk in the yolk mixture. Cook gently ,
frequently scraping the bottom and sides of the pan with a
heat-resistant rubber spatula or a wooden spoon, until it
thickens, 3 to 5 minutes. It should register 180°F/82°C on
an instant-read thermometer .
Remove from the heat. F or a very smooth texture (or if
you’re worried that you’ve gotten some bits of overcooked
egg in the sauce), strain the sauce through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve. Let cool, cover , and refrigerate until chilled, at least
1 hour .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp dark rum to the coconut milk
befor e you heat it. 
MAPLE-NUTMEG CUSTARD SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
The ﬂavors in this creamy sauce are fairly subtle, so aim for
balance. Using grade B maple syrup will give you a more
pronounced maple ﬂavor , and take care that the nutmeg
doesn’t overwhelm the maple. I use a rasp-style grater
(mine is made by Microplane) to grate my fresh nutmeg.
This sauce has a close-your-eyes-and-you’re-in-a- Vermont-
farmhouse kind of character , which is why I especially like
it with apple desserts. Maple also likes walnut, so a walnut
tart or walnut-studded spice cake would be a lovely
partner , too.
1 cup/240 ml half -and-half, or 1/2 cup/120 ml each whole
milk and heavy cr eam
2 egg yolks
1/4 cup/60 ml pur e maple syrup, pr eferably grade B
1 tbsp lightly pack ed dark or light br own sugar
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
Pinch of fr eshly grated nutmeg, plus mor e if needed
Heat the half -and-half in a small saucepan over medium
heat until it is just starting to steam; do not let it boil.Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk together the egg yolks,
maple syrup, brown sugar , and salt until well blended. Do
not whisk so much that the mixture gets foamy , however .
When the half -and-half is hot, slowly pour about half of it
into the yolk -sugar mixture, whisking constantly until
combined. Return the pan to medium-low heat, then whisk
in the yolk mixture. Gently cook the sauce, frequently
scraping the bottom and sides of the pan with a heat-
resistant rubber spatula or a wooden spoon, until it
thickens, 3 to 5 minutes. It should register 180°F/82°C on
an instant-read thermometer .
Remove from the heat and stir in the nutmeg, then taste
and add a bit more if you like. F or a very smooth texture (or
if you’re worried that you’ve gotten some bits of
overcooked egg in the sauce), strain the sauce through a
ﬁne-mesh sieve. Let cool, cover , and refrigerate until
chilled, at least 1 hour .
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/4 tsp gr ound ginger and 1 tbsp
unsulfur ed dark or light molasses along with the maple
syrup.
FLOURLESS “BROWNIE” CAKE with
CLASSIC VANILLA BEAN CRÈME ANGLAISE
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE; SERVES 8 TO 12Everyone needs a dessert like this in his or her repertoire.
This cake is about as easy to make as a batch of brownies,
but the results are more delicate and reﬁned—a lovely
ending to a dinner party . Use the best-quality chocolate you
can ﬁnd because the cake is all about chocolate. I use
Valrhona or Michel Cluizel when I feel like splurging. The
sauce is simultaneously rich and light, a subtle supporting
player to the drama of the chocolate. I like the fudgy
texture the cake develops after a day in the fridge (it will
need at least an hour to come to room temperature before
serving, so plan accordingly), but it is also delicious still
warm from the oven and a little fragile.
8 oz/225 g unsalted butter, plus mor e for the pan
1 lb/455 g dark chocolate (semisweet or bittersweet),
coarsely chopped
3/4 cup/150 g granulated sugar
5 large eggs
1/8 tsp k osher salt
21/2 cups/600 ml Classic V anilla Bean Crème Anglaise
Heat the oven to 350°F/180°C/gas 4. Butter the bottom and
sides of a 10-in/25-cm round springform pan.
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Put the butter and
chocolate into a medium stainless-steel bowl and rest the
bowl in the pan over (not touching) the water . Heat,
stirring occasionally , until the butter and chocolate have
melted and the mixture is smooth. Remove the bowl from
the heat and set aside to cool brieﬂy .
In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or in a
large bowl with a handheld electric mixer , beat together
the sugar , eggs, and salt on mediumhigh speed until thickand pale yellow , about 3 minutes. Using a rubber spatula,
scrape the egg mixture into the chocolate mixture and
gently fold together . Scrape the batter into the prepared
pan and smooth the top.
Bake the cake until it is puﬀed and is starting to pull away
from the sides of the pan, 30 to 35 minutes.
Let the cake cool on a rack for 30 minutes, then carefully
run a thin knife blade around the inside edge of the pan to
loosen the cake from the pan sides. Unclasp and lift oﬀ the
pan sides. The cake may collapse a bit in the center and
crack around the edges, which is ﬁne.
To serve the cake while it’s still warm, slice it into wedges
and transfer the slices to dessert plates. P our a generous
ribbon of crème anglaise around each slice and serve right
away . To serve the cake chilled and fudgy , let it cool
completely , wrap it in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for up
to 3 days. T ake from the refrigerator an hour before
serving, then slice and serve with the crème anglaise.
RICE PUDDING with CARDAMOM
MERINGUES, LIME Crème Anglaise, and
CHUNKY MIXED-BERRY COULIS
SERVES 4 TO 6, WITH EXTRA COOKIES
This dessert has several components, but they all can be
made ahead. In fact, the pudding and cookies must be
made ahead. The cookies are the perfect mate to the crème
anglaise, providing a delicious use for most of the unusedegg whites, and I like the dry ,
crunchy contrast they bring to
the creamy pudding and sauce.
The berry coulis adds its
wonderful fruity ﬂavor , of course,
but also brings dramatic color to
the dish.
MERINGUES
4 egg whites
3/4 cup/75 g confectioners’ sugar
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1/4 tsp gr ound car damom
1/8 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
1/3 cup/30 g gr ound blanched almonds
PUDDING
4 cups/960 ml whole milk
1/2 cup/105 g medium-grain white rice
Pinch of k osher salt
2 egg yolks
1/3 cup/65 g granulated sugar
About 1 cup/240 ml Creamy Lime Cr ème Anglaise
About 1 cup/240 ml Chunk y Mix ed-Berry Coulis
TO MAKE THE MERINGUES , heat the oven to 175°F/80°C ,
or to as low a temperature as possible. Line two largerimmed baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone
baking mats.
In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or in a
large bowl with a handheld electric mixer , beat the egg
whites on mediumhigh speed until foamy and thick, about 2
minutes. On low speed, slowly add both sugars and the salt
and continue beating until the whites are dense, glossy , and
hold soft but deﬁnite peaks, another 1 to 2 minutes. Using
a rubber spatula, gently fold in the cardamom, vanilla, and
almonds just until combined.
Using two small spoons, drop little mounds of the meringue
onto the baking sheets, spacing them at least 1 in/2.5 cm
apart. Y ou can make the meringues any size you like, but
smaller meringues bake faster—and they’re prettier .
Bake the meringues until they are dry and crunchy on the
outside and just a touch chewy on the inside, about 3
hours. Let them cool completely on their pans on racks.
(The cooled meringues can be stored in an airtight
container at room temperature for up to 1 week. They will
soften slightly but will still taste good.)
TO MAKE THE P UDDING , in a medium saucepan, combine
the milk, rice, and salt and bring to a boil over mediumhigh
heat. Quickly reduce the heat to maintain a steady simmer ,
then cook the rice, stirring occasionally , until tender , about
20 minutes. The rice will not have absorbed all of the milk.
Remove from the heat.
In a large bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and sugar
until smooth. Slowly pour the hot rice-milk mixture into the
yolk-sugar mixture while stirring constantly to blend. P our
everything back into the saucepan, return to very low heat,
and cook, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon or heat-resistant rubber spatula, until the pudding thickens a bit, 2
to 3 minutes.
Remove from the heat and pour the pudding into a clean
bowl. Let cool to room temperature, about 1 hour . Cover
with plastic wrap and refrigerate until well chilled, at least
3 hours or up to 3 days.
Put a scoop of the rice pudding on each dessert plate or in
each small, shallow bowl. Spoon crème anglaise around the
base of each pudding, spoon coulis over the top, and tuck a
few meringues at the edge of each plate or bowl. Serve
right away .FRUIT SAUCES
PART OF ME THINKS IT’S A SHAME TO DO ANYTHING
TO A PIECE OF RIPE FRUIT OTHER THAN BITE INTO IT .
Why mess with perfection? But the other part of me (maybe
the French-trained part) thinks that a ripe, juicy peach, a
silky mango, or a handful of perfumed blackberries begs to
be transformed into a sauce. The natural brightness of
ﬂavor , the yielding luscious textures, and the vivid colors of
fruit are all indispensable qualities of a successful sauce.
Fruit sauces are perfect with fruit desserts because they
amplify the ﬂavors already in the dish. But even more, I like
fruit sauces as a contrast to creamy ingredients, such as
ricotta cheese, ice cream, or puddings, where the bright
acidity of the fruit cuts through the richness of the creamy
dessert. Fruit sauces are also excellent partners for all
types of cake; the crumb of the cake soaks up the fruit
sauce in a wonderful way . Just think of a delicious juice-
soaked biscuit in a strawberry shortcake and you’ll know
what I mean.
Most of my fruit sauces are sweet and intended to pair with
desserts, but with a few nudges toward the savory side,
fruit can also become an exciting partner for meat, poultry ,
or ﬁsh.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
Fruit sauces don’t require mastering tricky techniques. Y ou
just need to make some decisions: raw or cooked, chunky
or smooth, sweet or tart.
On the raw side, the simplest fruit sauce is a coulis
(pronounced koo-LEE), which is a purée of raw fruit, most
often berries. Depending on the ﬂavor of the fruit, adjust
the balance of sweet and tart with sugar and citrus of some
kind. If the fruit is quite seedy , such as blackberries, you
can strain the seeds out. W ith a moderately seedy fruit,
such as raspberries, the choice is yours. The sauce will be a
touch rustic with the seeds, reﬁned and elegant without.
On the cooked side, heat transforms the ﬂavor , texture, and
color of fruit into something deeper . What you lose in
freshness, you gain in complexity and intensity . Blueberries
and plums are my favorite fruits for cooked sauces because
they undergo a personality makeover , becoming almost
spicy with shiny , viscous juices.
For a cooked sauce, the choice is the same: leave it chunky
or purée it so that it’s smooth. As with a coulis, if the fruit
is seedy , I always purée and then strain it. But with
something like a plum, which breaks down into lush and
tender chunks, I sometimes leave the sauce as is—hovering
between sauce and compote.
To turn fruit into a savory sauce, I generally keep most of
the sweet ingredients intact, but incorporate onion or
shallot, some type of spicy heat (fresh or dried chiles), and
more tang and salt.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
Even perfect fruit needs a ﬂavor boost to be made into a
sauce, and most fruit is far from perfect, especially the fruit
you ﬁnd in an average grocery store. If the fruit is
underripe, the sauce may be too tart and also just lack
ﬂavor . If the fruit is a touch overripe, the sauce may be ﬂat
and need sharpening up.
The only way to create a perfectly balanced fruit sauce is
by doing a lot of tasting as you make it. T aste the fruit
before you add any other ingredients so you have a sense of
its natural levels. Then get out your “tool kit”: citrus juice
(usually lemon or lime), sugar or honey , balsamic vinegar ,
salt, and something with spicy heat, such as cayenne or
Espelette pepper .
In most cases, a few drops of fresh lemon juice and some
sugar will do the trick. A squeeze of orange juice or a
drizzle of apple cider can also heighten the general
fruitiness. Balsamic vinegar is a secret weapon that, if used
judiciously , can easily dial up the sweet-tart balance. Spice
and salt should always be subtle, below-the-radar ﬂavors
that act as catalysts to make the other ﬂavors shine
brighter . The recipes in this chapter include these
ingredients, but feel free to add more of anything listed to
accommodate the personality of your fruit.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
Portion sizes for fruit sauces vary quite a bit. F or a colorful
ﬂourish to a slice of tart, you’ll need 2 tablespoons per
person, but for a dessert where the fruit sauce is a key
element, such as the blintzes on page 208, aim for closer to
1/4 to cup/60 to 80 ml per person.SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
Depending on the sauce you’re making, a blender or food
processor comes in handy . Also, a heavy saucepan, a ﬁne-
mesh sieve, and a ﬂexible but strong rubber spatula to
push the sauce through the sieve are all good to have on
hand.
STORAGE
Most fruit sauces can be stored in airtight containers in the
refrigerator for up to 5 days, though the brightness of any
sauce will fade after a day or two . They can also be frozen
for up to 2 months, again with some diminished brightness. 
MANGO-MINT COULIS
MAKES 1 CUP/240 ML
It doesn’t take much to turn a ripe mango into a glorious
sauce, but here I’m infusing the sauce with fresh mint to
add an herbal note that makes mango even more delicious.
A touch of lime balances out the brightness of the fruit.
The only mangoes I eat are the small, golden A taulfo
mangoes, also called Manila or Champagne mangoes.
They’re virtually ﬁber free, so each chunk of ﬂesh is juicy ,
dense, and smooth, and the ﬂavor is sprightly and
perfumed. If you can’t ﬁnd fresh A taulfo mangoes, frozen
mango chunks will work in a pinch. This sauce is beautiful
spooned around a slice of fresh fruit tart or grilled
pineapple slices, and it’s stunning on a creamy meringue
Pavlova .
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1/2 cup/120 ml water
1/2 cup/15 g lightly pack ed fresh mint leaves
2 cups/340 g fr esh ripe or thawed fr ozen mango chunks (1-
in/2.5-cm chunks, fr om about 2 medium A taulfo mangoes,
or 12 oz/340 g fr ozen mango chunks)
4 tsp fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
Tiny pinch of k osher saltIn a small saucepan, combine the sugar and water and
bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring until the
sugar is dissolved. Cook for about 1 minute more, then
remove from the heat. Add the mint, pushing the leaves
into the syrup until they are submerged, and let steep for
about 30 minutes. T aste the syrup, and if it’s nicely minty ,
remove and discard the mint; otherwise, letit steep longer ,
up to 1 hour . After that, the syrup will taste too vegetal.
In a food processor or blender , whiz the mango until
smooth. Add about 3 tbsp of the mint syrup and process
until very smooth. Add the lime juice and salt and then
taste and tinker with the balance of ﬂavors by adding more
lime juice or syrup as needed. If the sauce seems ﬁbrous,
push it through a ﬁne-mesh sieve.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use fr esh basil leaves instead of mint. 
RASPBERRY COULIS
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
There is no simpler fruit sauce than raspberry coulis, yet
it’s completely compelling thanks to its fuchsia color and
perfumed, sweet-tart ﬂavor . If you’re lucky enough to go
raspberry picking this summer , make a triple batch of the
sauce and freeze what you don’t use right away .
Drizzle this iconic coulis over ice cream, pour a ribbon
around a slice of lemon tart, swirl it with whipped cream
and lemon curd to make an instant parfait, or use it to
dress up a slice of ﬂourless chocolate cake.
8 oz/225 g fr esh or thawed fr ozen raspber ries
Confectioners’ sugar
Fresh lemon juice
In a food processor or blender , whiz the berries until just
shy of smooth (aside from the raspberry seeds). Add 2 tsp
sugar and pulse to mix. T aste the sauce and add more
sugar , if necessary . Add a few drops of lemon juice and
taste again. Y ou want the sauce to be sweet but not cloying,
so tinker with the sugar and lemon until you have a nice
balance. Serve the sauce as is or strain out the seeds using
a ﬁne-mesh sieve.STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp raspber ry liqueur with the
sugar . 
PEACH-RASPBERRY COULIS WITH A HINT
OF ROSEMARY
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/480 ML
I love the luscious character and aroma of fresh, ripe
peaches, but they can be one-dimensional in a sauce. T o
oﬀset this, I like to add fresh herbs and raspberries for
their ﬂavor . The raspberries also contribute color , which is
pretty pooled around a slice of lemon tart or drizzled over
ginger or lemon ice cream.
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1/2 cup/120 ml water
2 fresh r osemary sprigs, 4 in/10 cm long
1 lb/455 g very ripe peaches, peeled, pitted, and cut into
chunks
1/2 cup/60 g fr esh or mostly thawed fr ozen raspber ries
Fresh lemon juice
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
In a small saucepan, combine the sugar and water and
bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring until the
sugar is dissolved. Cook for about 1 minute more, then
remove from the heat. Add the rosemary , pushing the
sprigs into the syrup until they are submerged, and let
steep for about 15 minutes. T aste the syrup, and if therosemary ﬂavor isn’t strong enough, let steep for another 5
to 10 minutes. T aste the syrup often so you can remove the
rosemary when its ﬂavor is nice and strong but not
overwhelming. Rosemary can impart a sort of turpentine
taste if you leave it for too long. Discard the sprigs.
In a food processor or blender , combine the peaches and
raspberries and whiz until just shy of smooth (aside from
the raspberry seeds). Add about 2/3 cup/75 ml of the
rosemary syrup, process to combine, and then taste, adding
more syrup until you like the balance of fruit and herb. Add
1 tsp lemon juice and the salt and then taste and tinker
with the balance of ﬂavors by adding more lemon juice or
syrup as needed. Cover and refrigerate until chilled—this
sauce tastes best cold—before serving.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months. The color may dark en a
bit.
QUICK CHANGE  Use half peaches (or nectarines) and half
apriums (a cr oss between an apricot and a plum). 
CHUNKY MIXED-BERRY COULIS
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/480 ML
Straining half of the sauce preserves its nice compote
character but helps remove many of the seeds. If you’re
using blackberries, the seeds can be a bit annoying. The
sauce is best made primarily with cane berries—those in
the raspberry and blackberry families—and blueberries.
Too many strawberries can make the sauce wan. Serve the
sauce over a scoop or two of lemon ice cream, swirled with
some fromage blanc, folded into soft whipped cream, or
with creamy rice pudding .
1 lb/455 g mix ed fresh or fr ozen ber ries such as blackber ry,
raspber ry, boysenber ry, blueber ry, and strawber ry, in any
combination
1/4 cup/50 g granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp water
1 tbsp fr esh lime juice, plus mor e if needed
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the berries, sugar ,
and water and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat.
Simmer until the berries begin to break down and the
juices are running, about 10 minutes for fresh berries and
25 minutes for frozen.Transfer about half of the cooked fruit to a ﬁne-mesh sieve
set over a medium bowl. Using a rubber spatula, push the
fruit through the sieve to purée it and remove the seeds
(you can do this in a food processor , if you like, but the fruit
should be soft enough to force through the sieve).
Stir the purée back into the rest of the sauce in the pan,
then add the lime juice and salt. F or a thicker sauce, cook
for a few more minutes (but not so much that it gets
“jammy”; the sauce will thicken as it cools). T aste and
adjust with more sugar or lime juice if needed.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/2 tsp peeled and ﬁnely chopped
fresh ginger to the ber ries with the sugar and water . 
BLACKBERRY-ALMOND SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
Blackberries were exotic to me until I moved to the P aciﬁc
Northwest, where late-summer hikes in the woods yield
handfuls of the wild berries and farmers’ market stalls oﬀer
big, dusky berries engorged with deep purple juice. And
although plentiful for a few weeks during late summer
when they’re in season, blackberries are nonetheless
temperamental. Even ripe ones can be tart, and all
blackberries are extremely seedy , which is why I always
strain my blackberry sauces.
This sauce is a treat on pancakes, crepes, or waﬄes or on a
fat slice of angel food cake, topped with whipped cream.
12 oz/340 g ripe blackber ries
1/4 cup/20 g confectioners’ sugar, plus mor e if needed
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp water
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
1/8 tsp pur e almond e xtract
1/4 tsp balsamic vinegar (optional)
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the berries, sugar ,
lemon juice, water , and salt and bring to a simmer overmedium-high heat. Cover and cook just until the juices are
running and the berries have slightly collapsed, 3 to 4
minutes. Do not let the juices caramelize.
Scrape everything into a food processor and whiz until
smooth (aside from the blackberry seeds). Strain through a
ﬁne-mesh sieve into a small bowl, using a wooden spoon or
rubber spatula to push as many solids through as you can.
You will end up with 2 to 3 tbsp seeds, which you can toss
out.
Stir the almond extract into the berry purée. T aste and
adjust with more sugar or lemon juice if needed. Add the
vinegar if the sauce needs extra punch. Serve slightly
warm, at room temperature, or cool.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use Demerara or turbinado sugar in place
of the confectioners’ sugar . 
SPICED BLUEBERRY SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
Blueberries are wonderful eaten fresh, but they undergo a
remarkable transformation when cooked—sort of like the
pretty librarian who whips oﬀ her glasses and is suddenly
sexy. As the blueberries cook, they’ll burst and release lots
of indigo juice, their ﬂavor will develop a distinct spiciness
(which I’m echoing here with additional spices), and the
ﬁnal sauce will be glossy and thick. Serve this sauce over
pound cake with a scoop of ice cream alongside, or pour it
over barely warm lemon pudding cake .
12 oz/340 g fr esh or fr ozen blueber ries
1/4 cup/50 g granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp water
1/4 tsp gr ound cinnamon
1/4 tsp gr ound car damom
1/8 tsp gr ound cloves
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
1 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the berries, sugar ,
water , cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, and salt over medium
heat. Cover and cook until the juices are running, about 5
minutes. Uncover and simmer until the berries collapse abit more and the juices reduce and thicken a bit, another
couple minutes. The sauce won’t actually look thick, but it
will seem slightly syrupy .
Add the lemon juice, then taste and adjust with more sugar ,
lemon, or spices. Y ou can serve the sauce chunky , or you
can whiz it in a food processor and pass it through a ﬁne-
mesh sieve, which will make it very glossy and smooth.
Serve slightly warm, at room temperature, or cool.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Omit the spices and lemon juice and add 1
tbsp fr esh lime juice and 1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated
lime zest when the sauce is r emoved fr om the heat. 
HONEY-PLUM SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 2 1/2 CUPS/600 ML
Plums are one of my favorite fruits to cook because they
seem to love the heat. Their texture relaxes into a lush
softness, their color intensiﬁes, and their ﬂavor becomes
slightly spicy yet still retains its nice acidity . The color of
this sauce will vary depending on the variety of plum you
use. The sauce is delicious on pancakes or waﬄes, perfect
with almond cake, and lovely with a moist square of warm
gingerbread topped with a spoonful of crème fraîche.
2 lb/910 g ripe plums, halved, pitted, and cut into 3/4-in/2-
cm wedges
1/4 cup/50 g granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
1/4 cup/60 ml honey
1/4 cup/60 ml water
1/2 tsp fr esh lemon juice, plus mor e if needed
1/4 tsp gr ound car damom
1/4 tsp gr ound ginger
1/4 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the plums, sugar ,
honey , water , lemon juice, cardamom, ginger , and vanilla
and bring to a gentle boil over medium-high heat, stirring
slowly to dissolve the sugar . Reduce the heat to maintain asimmer and cook, uncovered, until the plums are starting
to fall apart and the juices have thickened quite a bit, 15 to
20 minutes.
If the fruit is getting mushy but the juices are still thin,
using a slotted spoon, transfer most of the fruit to a bowl.
Increase the heat to high and boil the juices until they are
nicely thickened, then return the fruit to the pan. T aste the
sauce and adjust with more sugar , lemon juice, or spices.
You can serve the sauce chunky , or you can whiz it in a food
processor to make it smooth. T o make it perfectly smooth,
push the sauce through a ﬁne-mesh sieve. Serve slightly
warm, at room temperature, or cool.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Omit the car damom and incr ease the
ginger to 1/2 tsp. 
STRAWBERRY-BALSAMIC SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
I am making it my personal mission to get everyone to taste
the incredible ﬂavor of strawberries, brown sugar , and
balsamic vinegar mixed together—preferably with some
sour cream or vanilla ice cream close by—because I think
it’s one of the dessert world’s perfect combinations. Each
element echoes the others and the sweet-sour-savory
dynamic is irresistible. Y our balsamic vinegar should be
decent, but not artisanal, quality . I like Lucini brand, which
is sold in many grocery stores.
Garnish a classic strawberry shortcake with some of this
sauce, serve it with a slice of vanilla sponge cake, or
transform it into a luscious fool with whipped cream and
fresh goat cheese .
1/4 cup/60 ml balsamic vinegar
1/4 cup/50 g lightly pack ed light or dark br own sugar
12 oz/340 g strawber ries, hulled and halved or quarter ed
lengthwise if lar ge
1/8 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
Tiny pinch of k osher saltIn a large frying pan, combine the vinegar and sugar over
medium heat, bring to a simmer , and cook, stirring, until
syrupy , about 1 minute or so once it’s come to a simmer .
Watch out for the vinegar fumes, which can be startlingly
potent! Add the berries and simmer , stirring gently , until
they start to collapse and the juices are running but the
berries have not turned to mush, 6 to 8 minutes.
Remove the pan from the heat and gently stir in the vanilla
and salt. T aste and adjust the seasoning. Y ou want a
balance that is fruity and sweet, with just an intriguing
edge of vinegar . Serve slightly cool or at room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Replace half of the strawber ries with
raspber ries. 
CHUNKY CHERRY MOSTARDA SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Mostarda is a wonderful, spicy Italian condiment that’s not
quite a chutney , not quite a pickle, but rather a sweet-hot
chunky preserve of fruits with mustard. It’s often served
with cold boiled or roasted meats. In this simpliﬁed version,
I’m playing the deep sweetness of Bing cherries against
sinus-clearing dry mustard and brown mustard seeds.
The result is a perfect companion for pâté, ham, or even
meat loaf . Or, use it in a riﬀ on the old appetizer classic of
pepper jelly poured over cream cheese by spooning some of
the sauce over cream cheese or fromage blanc. Serve it
with good crackers and a well-made Negroni for an
enjoyable cocktail hour .
1 tbsp e xtra-virgin olive oil
1/2 cup/70 g ﬁnely chopped yellow onion
Kosher salt
1 lb/455 g Bing or other sweet cher ries, pitted and coarsely
chopped
1/4 cup/50 g lightly pack ed light br own sugar, plus mor e if
needed
1/4 cup/60 ml rice vinegar, plus mor e if needed
1/2 tsp br own mustar d seeds
1/2 tsp chopped fr esh thyme1/4 tsp dry mustar d
In a medium, heavy saucepan, heat the oil over medium
heat. Add the onion and 1/4 tsp salt and cook, stirring often,
until the onion is soft and fragrant, about 5 minutes. Add
the cherries, sugar , vinegar , mustard seeds, thyme, and dry
mustard, stir together , and bring to a simmer . Cover and
cook, stirring occasionally , until the cherries partially
collapse but have not turned to mush, 10 to 14 minutes.
Remove the pan from the heat, let cool slightly , and then
taste and adjust the seasoning with salt, sugar , and vinegar
if needed. Serve warm, at room temperature, or cold.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well because the cher ries
get too mushy .
QUICK CHANGE  Use chopped, pitted Italian prune plums
instead of cher ries. 
SAVORY SPICED RHUBARB SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
If you haven’t yet made friends with rhubarb, now’s the
time. It’s such a surprising ingredient: bite into a stalk raw
and you can’t believe humans actually eat it, but take a bite
of rhubarb after it’s simmered with some sugar , and you
won’t want to stop eating it. This sauce is sweet, sour ,
savory , and a perfect partner for sweet meats, such as pork
loin, lamb chops, sausages, or ham.
2 tsp olive oil
2 tsp chopped shallot
1 tsp ﬁnely chopped fr esh chile such as jalapeño
1 tsp peeled and ﬁnely chopped fr esh ginger
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar
1 lb/455 g r hubarb stalks, ﬁbr ous ends peeled and cut into
1-in/2.5-cm chunks
1/3 cup plus 2 tsp/85 g lightly pack ed light or dark br own
sugar
1 whole star anise
1 bay leaf
2 tbsp water
Kosher salt
1/8 tsp cayenne pepper, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp unsalted butter, plus mor e if needed (optional)In a medium, heavy saucepan, heat the oil over medium-
high heat. Add the shallot, chile, and ginger and cook,
stirring constantly , until soft and fragrant, about 2 minutes.
Add the vinegar and simmer until reduced to a glaze, just a
few seconds. Add the rhubarb, brown sugar , star anise, bay
leaf, and water and bring to a boil over medium-high heat.
Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook, stirring
occasionally , until the rhubarb is very soft and starting to
fall apart, 6 to 8 minutes.
Remove from the heat and remove and discard the star
anise and bay leaf . Whisk in 1/2 tsp salt, the cayenne, and
butter (if using). T aste and adjust the seasoning with salt or
cayenne or more butter if the sauce tastes sharp. Serve
warm.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Omit the star anise and add 1/8 tsp gr ound
cinnamon and a tiny pinch of gr ound cloves with the salt
and cayenne. 
SAVORY BLACKBERRY-BASIL SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
Ripe blackberries have a heavenly perfume, and in this
sauce, I enhance that lovely fragrance with fresh basil.
Blackberries also tend to be tart, so I keep the tart ﬂavor
balanced by using a gastrique, or caramel dissolved with
vinegar . Depending on your berries, you may need to add
more sugar to taste, too . Even though Aleppo chile isn’t
always easy to ﬁnd, I’m calling for it here because it’s my
new favorite ground chile—fruity and almost winey , but not
superhot. If you don’t have Aleppo chile or another mild
chile powder on hand, you can use cayenne pepper , but
reduce the amount to a pinch. I love this sauce on grilled
chicken thighs, grilled pork chops, or sautéed turkey
cutlets.
2 tbsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp balsamic vinegar, plus mor e if needed
12 oz/340 g ripe blackber ries
1 tbsp ﬁnely chopped shallot or yellow onion
2 tbsp water
1/8 tsp coarsely gr ound Aleppo chile  or other mild chile
powder
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 tbsp thinly sliced fr esh basilIn a small, heavy saucepan, cook the sugar over low heat,
stirring frequently so the sugar doesn’t burn around the
edges, until the sugar turns a deep copper color , about 10
minutes from when you turn on the burner .
Remove the pan from the heat, add the vinegar , and stir to
dissolve the caramel (this is the gastrique). Stir in the
berries, shallot, water , chile powder , 1/4 tsp salt, and a few
grinds of pepper . Return to low heat, cover , and simmer
until the berries have softened and released their juices, 4
to 5 minutes.
Scrape everything into a food processor and whiz until
smooth (aside from the blackberry seeds). Strain through a
ﬁne-mesh sieve into a small bowl, using a wooden spoon or
rubber spatula to push as many solids through as you can.
You will end up with 2 to 3 tbsp seeds, which you can toss
out.
Stir the basil into the blackberry purée. T aste and adjust
with more salt, pepper , vinegar , and sugar if needed. Serve
warm or at room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5
days or fr eeze for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tsp chopped fr esh tar ragon with the
basil.
PAVLOVA with MANGO-MINT COULIS
SERVES 6 TO 8A Pavlova should be in every cook’s repertoire. It’s simple
to make and one of those desserts that you just can’t stop
eating because the textures are irresistible: the cloudlike
meringue base is crunchy on the outside but like the best
marshmallow on the inside, and the layer of luscious
whipped cream contrasts with the juicy fruit on top—it’s
dynamic.
5 egg whites, at r oom temperatur e
1 tsp k osher salt
1 cup/200 g granulated sugar
1 tsp cor nstar ch
1 tsp distilled white or white wine vinegar
1/2 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
3/4 cup/180 ml heavy cr eam
1/2 cup/120 ml cr ème fraîche
1 to 2 tbsp honey
4 cups/455 g mix ed fresh fruit chunks such as peach,
nectarine, plum, apricot, mango, kiwifruit, and ber ries, in
any combination
1 cup/240 ml Mango -Mint Coulis
Heat the oven to 350°F/180°C/gas 4. Line a large rimmed
baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking
mat.
In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or with a
handheld electric mixer and a large bowl, beat the egg
whites on medium-high speed until very foamy and white
and beginning to grow in volume, about 2 minutes.
Continue to beat as you sprinkle in the salt and then the
sugar , a spoonful at a time. Then beat until you have a
ﬂuﬀy , glossy meringue that holds ﬁrm, swirly peaks, about
4 minutes more. On low speed, gently beat in the
cornstarch, vinegar , and vanilla just until combined.Pile the meringue onto the center of the prepared baking
sheet. Using a large spoon or rubber spatula, spread the
meringue in a 9-in/23-cm circle with a slight depression in
the center , like a kiddie pool. Place the meringue in the
oven, reduce the oven temperature to 300°F/150°C/gas 2,
and bake until very dry on the top but still soft in the center
when you press it, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Don’t let the meringue
brown past a nice shade of ivory .
Turn oﬀ the oven but leave the meringue inside until the
oven is completely cool.
In the stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or with
the handheld electric mixer and a clean medium bowl, beat
the cream on high speed until it holds soft peaks, 1 to 2
minutes. Add the crème fraîche and 1 tbsp of the honey and
beat for a few more seconds to blend. The cream should
hold its shape but not be “curdly .” Taste and fold in a bit
more honey if you want the cream mixture to be sweeter .
Transfer the cooled meringue to a serving plate. Mound the
cream in the center of the meringue and spread it with an
oﬀset spatula or the back of a spoon to make a pretty ,
cloudlike layer . Arrange the fresh fruit artfully over the
cream. Let stand for at least 15 minutes or up to 2 hours (if
it’s not too hot in your kitchen) to allow the cream to meld
with the meringue a bit and the fruit juices to run into the
cream.
Cut into wedges, transfer the slices to dessert plates, and
serve with the coulis spooned around each wedge.
HOMEY LEMON PUDDING CAKE with
SPICED BLUEBERRY SAUCEMAKES ONE 8-IN/20-CM CAKE;  
SERVES 6 TO 8
If your mother didn’t make this cake, your grandmother
probably did. It’s one of those easy , comforting desserts
that feel appropriate for a family supper , a dinner party , or
anything in between. The batter separates into three layers
as it bakes: a light, spongy cake on top, a moist pudding in
the middle, and a saucy layer on the bottom.
Even though this dessert makes its own sauce, I like to add
a contrasting blueberry sauce as much for its deep purple
color as for its ﬂavor . Most recipes call for baking this kind
of cake in a water bath, but I think that’s too fussy . I just
bake it at a lower temperature, which protects its delicate
texture.
1 tbsp unsalted butter, for the baking dish
11/2 cups/360 ml whole milk
4 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup/75 ml fr esh lemon juice
1 tbsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated lemon zest
1/2 cup/65 g all-purpose ﬂour
11/4 cups/250 g granulated sugar
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1 cup/240 ml Spiced Blueber ry Sauce
Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and heat to
350°F/180°C/gas 4. Butter an 8-in/20-cm square baking
dish.In a medium bowl, whisk together the milk, egg yolks,
lemon juice, and lemon zest until blended. In another
medium bowl, whisk together the ﬂour , 1 cup/200 g of the
sugar , and the salt. Whisk the dry ingredients into the wet
ingredients until blended.
In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, or with a
large bowl and a handheld electric mixer , beat the egg
whites on medium-high speed until foamy and white, about
1 minute. W ith the mixer running, slowly add the remaining
1/4 cup/50 g sugar , a little at a time, beating until fully
incorporated, and then continue to beat until the whites are
glossy and hold medium-ﬁrm peaks, about 4 minutes more.
Whisk about one-fourth of the egg whites into the cake
batter to lighten it. Then, using a rubber spatula, gently
fold the remaining egg whites into the batter just until no
white streaks are visible. P our the batter into the prepared
baking dish.
Place the cake in the oven and immediately reduce the
oven temperature to 300°F/150°C/gas 2. Bake until puﬀed
and slightly dry on the top but still soft inside (the cake will
wiggle when you shake the dish), 35 to 40 minutes. Let cool
on a rack until barely warm, then scoop into dessert bowls
and serve with the blueberry sauce.
RICOTTA BLINZTES with HONEY-PLUM
SAUCE
MAKES 8 BLINTZES; SERVES 4The ﬁlling for these gently fried stuﬀed crepes is not too
sweet, which makes them a wonderful breakfast or brunch
dish. Y ou can make the sauce and the crepes (stack them,
wrap in plastic wrap, and refrigerate) a couple of days
ahead, so you won’t have to get out of bed too early to pull
the dish together .
CREPES
1 cup/240 ml whole milk, plus mor e if needed
2 large eggs
1/2 tsp k osher salt
3/4 cups/90 g all-purpose ﬂour
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted, plus mor e for cooking the
crepes
FILLING
1 cup/225 g fr esh whole-milk ricotta cheese
1 tbsp confectioners’ sugar
2 tsp all-purpose ﬂour
1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated orange zest (optional)
1/4 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
Pinch of k osher salt
1 large egg, beaten
1 tbsp plus 4 tsp unsalted butter
About 1 cup/240 ml Honey -Plum Sauce
Confectioners’ sugar for dusting
TO MAKE THE CREPES , in a blender , combine the milk,
eggs, and salt and whiz for a few seconds to blend
everything together . Remove the lid and add the ﬂour . Re-
cover and process until very smooth, about 20 seconds.
Remove the lid, pour in the butter , cover , and process until
combined, about 10 seconds more.Transfer the batter to a large glass measuring cup with a
spout (or to a bowl into which you can easily dip a 1/4 -
cup/60-ml ladle or measuring cup). Let the batter rest for
at least 30 minutes at room temperature or refrigerate for
up to 24 hours. When you are ready to make the crepes,
test the consistency of the batter . It should be as thick as
heavy cream, but not as thick as pancake batter . If it is too
thick, whisk in more milk.
Heat a crepe pan with an 8-in/20-cm base, nonstick frying
pan, or well-seasoned frying pan over medium-high heat
until a drop of water ﬂicked onto the surface sizzles on
contact. Using a folded paper towel, spread about 1/2 tsp
butter around the interior of the pan. The butter should
sizzle on contact, but you don’t want the pan so hot that the
butter burns.
Pour about 1/4 cup/60 ml of the batter into the center of the
pan. As you pour , lift the pan from the heat and tilt and turn
it in all directions so the batter spreads evenly across the
bottom of the pan in a thin circle. If the crepe has any holes
in it, quickly add a few drops of batter to ﬁll them in. Or , if
you have too much batter and the crepe looks too thick,
immediately pour the excess back into the measuring cup
or bowl. Y ou can always trim oﬀ the “tail” that’s left behind.
Cook the crepe until the edges begin to dry and lift from
the edge of the pan and the bottom is nicely browned,
about 1 minute. T o check for color , use a table knife, thin
oﬀset spatula, or your ﬁngers to lift up an edge of the crepe
and look underneath. When the ﬁrst side is ready , use the
knife, spatula, or your ﬁngers to lift the crepe and quickly
ﬂip it over . Smooth out any folded edges or pleats, and then
cook until the center is ﬁrm and the second side is
browned, too, about 20 seconds more.Slide the crepe from the pan onto a large plate or cooling
rack. Repeat with the remaining batter , adjusting the heat
and spreading the pan with more butter as you cook. As
each crepe is ﬁnished, stack it on top of the previous one.
You should end up with eight crepes. The crepes will soften
as they cool.
TO MAKE THE FILLING , in a small bowl, combine the
ricotta, confectioners’ sugar , ﬂour , orange zest, vanilla, and
salt and stir with a fork just until blended. Do not overmix
or you will lose the ﬂuﬀiness of the ricotta. Stir in the egg.
Heat the oven to 400°F/200°C/gas 6. Use 1 tbsp of the
butter to grease the bottom of a 9-by-13-in/23-by-33-cm
baking dish.
Lay the crepes, prettiest-side down, on a clean work
surface. Spoon about 2 tbsp of the ﬁlling onto the center of
each crepe, then spread the ﬁlling into a 3-by-1-in/7.5-by-
2.5-cm oval. F old the bottom and top edges of each crepe
up to enclose the ﬁlling, and then fold in both sides to
create neat, ﬂattish rectangular blintzes about 3 1/2 in/9 cm
long.
In a large frying pan, melt about 2 tsp of the remaining
butter over medium heat. When the butter is hot, arrange
as many blintzes, seam-side up, in the pan as will ﬁt in a
single layer . Cook until the underside of each blintze is
golden, about 2 minutes. Flip and cook until golden on the
second side, another 2 minutes. Transfer the blintzes to the
prepared baking dish. Repeat with any remaining blintzes
and butter .
Put the baking dish in the oven and bake until the blintzes
are slightly puﬀed, the ﬁlling is heated through, and the
bottoms are slightly crisp, 7 to 10 minutes.Arrange two blintzes, overlapping them slightly , on each of
four plates. Spoon a generous ribbon of the plum sauce
around each pair of blintzes. Dust the blintzes with
confectioners’ sugar . Serve warm.
CRUSHED STRAWBERRY-BALSAMIC FOOL
PARFAIT
SERVES 6
Pastry chef and cookbook author
Abby Dodge taught me about
fools when we worked together at
Fine Cooking  magazine. She’s a
master at this kind of simple but
sophisticated dessert, so I asked
her to create one to pair with the
Strawberry-Balsamic Sauce. Y ou
can try the same recipe with the
blackberry , blueberry , or mixed-
berry sauce.
11/2 cups/360 ml Strawber ry-Balsamic Sauce , chilled
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam
4 oz/115 g mild fr esh goat cheese or fromage blanc , at room
temperatur e
1/3 cup/65 g lightly pack ed light br own sugar
1/4 tsp k osher salt
21/4 cups/240 g coarsely crushed amar etti or gingersnaps
6 strawber ries, hulled and halved lengthwiseHave ready six parfait glasses or wineglasses.
Set aside about 1/2 cup/120 ml of the sauce. Scrape the
remaining sauce into a food processor and pulse until the
berries are crushed. (I like to leave some texture to the
berries, but you can pulse until smooth, too .)
In a large bowl, using a handheld electric mixer , beat
together the cream, goat cheese, sugar , and salt on
medium-low speed until smooth, about 1 minute. Increase
the speed to high and beat until ﬁrm peaks form when the
beaters are lifted (don’t forget to stop the mixer before
lifting), about 2 minutes. Add the reserved sauce and the
processed sauce and, using a rubber spatula, fold just until
blended. (The mixture can be covered and refrigerated for
up to 1 day before continuing.)
Spoon about 3 1/2 tbsp of the cream mixture into each glass.
Top with about 3 tbsp of the cookie crumbs. Spread about
31/2 tbsp of the cream mixture over the cookie crumbs in
each glass. T op with the remaining crumbs and then with
the remaining cream mixture.
Serve immediately or cover and refrigerate up to 3 hours
(the cookie crumbs will soften a bit). T op with the
strawberry halves just before serving.
LAMB MEATBALLS in CHUNKY CHERRY
MOSTARDA SAUCE with COUSCOUS
SERVES 4Something about this cherry sauce makes me crave lamb,
and meatballs are one of my favorite ways to enjoy lamb.
Both sauce and meat are slightly sweet, so be sure to dial
the spice heat level high enough to provide contrast. The
simply steamed greens also deliver a welcome earthiness.
You can make the meatballs and the sauce up to a day
ahead, so you don’t need to juggle too many last-minute
cooking chores.
3/4 cup/40 g fr esh br ead crumbs
2 tbsp water plus 1 1/2 cups/360 ml
1 lb/455 g gr ound lamb
1/3 cup/40 g ﬁnely crumbled feta cheese
1/4 cup/10 g ﬁnely chopped fr esh cilantr o
1 clove garlic, minced
Kosher salt and fr eshly gr ound black pepper
1 large egg, lightly beaten
4 tbsp/60 ml e xtra-virgin olive oil, plus mor e if needed
11/2 cups/360 ml Chunk y Cher ry Mostar da Sauce
About 6 cups/170 g lightly pack ed roughly chopped mix ed
greens such as Swiss char d, kale, beet gr eens, and spinach,
in any combination, rinsed well but not dried
11/2 cups/255 g couscous
1/4 cup/60 ml plain yogurt, stir red with a fork to loosen
1/4 cup/10 g chopped fr esh ﬂat-leaf parsley or mint
(optional)
In a small bowl, sprinkle the bread crumbs with the 2 tbsp
water and toss to moisten evenly .
In a large bowl, combine the lamb, moistened bread
crumbs, feta, cilantro, garlic, 1 tsp salt, and tsp pepper and
mix gently with your hands to distribute the ingredients
evenly . Add the egg and mix again. Do not squeeze oroverwork the mixture. Shape the mixture into 24 uniform
meatballs, shaping them between your palms.
In a large frying pan, heat 2 tbsp of the oil over medium
heat. W orking in batches if necessary , add the meatballs in
a single layer , leaving enough room between them so you
can turn them easily . Brown the meatballs, turning them as
needed, until nicely colored on all sides, 7 to 9 minutes
total per batch. They may not be fully cooked through,
which is okay . Because of the cheese, the meatballs may
stick a little, so use a thin metal spatula to dislodge them
gently when you turn them. Transfer the meatballs to a
large plate.
Pour oﬀ any excess fat from the pan. If there are any
burned bits in the pan, wipe them out, but don’t wipe out
the good brown bits. Return the meatballs to the pan over
low heat, pour in the sauce, and gently simmer the
meatballs in the sauce, shaking the pan occasionally to coat
them well, until cooked through, 5 to 6 minutes. Remove
from the heat and keep warm.
Heat a large saucepan or frying pan over high heat and
drop in about half of the greens. (Y ou do not need to add
any water; the rinsing water clinging to greens is suﬀicient
moisture.) T oss the greens with tongs to encourage them to
wilt, and keep adding more greens as each batch collapses
and creates space in the pan. When all of the greens are in
the pan, season them with 1/2 tsp salt, reduce the heat to
medium, and cover the pan to steam the greens,
uncovering the pan and tossing the greens frequently as
they cook. If they seem to be drying out, add a few
spoonfuls of water . Cook just until tender , 3 to 10 minutes,
depending on the kind of greens you are using. T aste and
adjust the seasoning with salt; keep warm.In a small saucepan, bring the remaining 1∂ cups/360 ml
water to a boil over high heat. Stir in the couscous, ∂ tsp
salt, and remaining 2 tbsp oil, then remove from the heat.
Cover and let sit undisturbed until the couscous has
absorbed the water and is tender , about 5 minutes. Fluﬀ
the couscous with a fork. T aste and adjust the seasoning
with salt and olive oil until the couscous is tasty , then ﬂuﬀ
again.
Divide the couscous evenly among four warmed shallow
serving bowls. Arrange a pile of greens on the couscous
and top each serving with six meatballs and some sauce.
Drizzle an equal amount of the yogurt over each serving,
then sprinkle with the parsley (if using). Serve right away .CARAMEL SAUCES
I GET A THRILL FROM MAKING CARAMEL.
TRANSFORMING CLOYING WHITE SUGAR INTO
NUANCED TEETERING -ON-THE-EDGE -OF-BITTER
CARAMEL  is an example of what I love most about cooking:
you start with one thing and you turn it into another , much
better thing.
In the case of caramel sauce, “much better” means divine—
sweet but with a nutty hint of bitterness for sophistication,
and with layers of ﬂavor that continue to unfold as you
savor it. If the world is divided into chocolate people and
caramel-ginger-lemon people (and I believe it is), I am the
captain of the caramel team.
A caramel sauce is an impressive sauce to make. Many
cooks ﬁnd it a bit mysterious, but with a little technique
work under your belt, you’ll be making caramel sauces that
are so incredibly delicious (and superior to commercial
caramel sauces), you’ll earn impressive cooking cred from
everyone you share them with.
WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
True caramel is sugar cooked to a temperature of around
350°F/180°C , which is the candy-making temperature at
which thousands of ﬂavor compounds develop. When a
caramel cooked to this temperature cools, it will be hard
and brittle, so to make it into a sauce you need to add
liquid. F or most of my sauces, I add heavy cream or crèmefraîche (the latter for a tangy note) and often ﬁnish the
sauce with butter . You can use other liquids such as
coconut milk or fruit juice or even a little water would work
for a simple sauce.
There are two ways to make your base caramel: cook dry
sugar for a dry caramel or cook sugar with a little water for
a wet caramel. The latter method gives you a time buﬀer;
the sugar and water form a syrup, and then the water has
to evaporate before the sugar can caramelize, so you have
a bit more time before the sugar begins to brown. When
you make a dry caramel, the sugar around the edges of the
pan will melt and caramelize faster than the sugar at the
center , which means you will need to swirl the pan to blend
what is caramelized and what is not to avoid burning. It’s a
bit tricky , but it’s also faster—and more dramatic! Give it a
try once you are comfortable with making wet caramel.
A good caramel sauce depends on how dark the caramel is.
If you stop cooking the sugar too soon, you will end up with
a light caramel that oﬀers sweetness without depth. It
won’t be much tastier than corn syrup. But cook the sugar
too long and it will go from perfect to dark, burnt, and
bitter in seconds, even fractions of seconds.
I like a hint of bitterness in my caramel, so I try to take it
right up to the edge. Gauging doneness uses both your eyes
and your nose. Y ou will begin to smell “caramel” and then
you will see a tiny suggestion of smoke. F or me, that’s the
exact moment to add the cream or other liquid, so always
have it measured and ready at the stove.
Fortunately , sugar is relatively inexpensive, so if you
overcook it, you can just dump that batch and start over .
You won’t feel the same freedom once you have added the
pricier cream and butter , of course.WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
The one thing that can go wrong—but I won’t allow it to—is
that you can seriously burn yourself with caramel. When
the caramel is at its peak temperature, it is more than
350°F/180°C . Plus, the stuﬀ is sticky , so if it splashes onto
your hand, you can’t just ﬂick it oﬀ . Caramel will also burn
if it splashes onto the burner of your stove.
But don’t worry! I don’t want to scare anyone away from
making caramel sauce, and it’s easy to make sure that you
won’t hurt yourself . In fact, I’ve never , ever burned myself
on caramel. Here are three rules to ensure that you don’t
either:
1. Use a saucepan that has at least three times the volume
of the amount of sauce you are making. When you add
your cream or other liquid to the hot caramel, it will
bubble up furiously , so you need a pan with enough
room to accommodate the bubbling without
overﬂowing. F or instance, if your recipe calls for 1
cup/200 grams sugar and 1 cup/240 milliliters heavy
cream, a 2-quart/2-liter saucepan is the minimum size
you should use.
2. Keep little kids, dogs, and cats away from the stove when
you make caramel.
3. Pay attention.
As I mentioned earlier , knowing when to stop cooking your
caramel and add the liquid is key . You’ll only be able to
judge this stage properly if you can easily see the color of
the caramel, so don’t use a dark saucepan (such asanodized aluminum or cast iron). A plain stainless-steel
saucepan is best. And never use a pan with a nonstick
surface. Caramel temperatures are too hot for it, plus it is
too dark to gauge color . To judge the color accurately ,
scoop out a tiny bit with a metal spoon and drip it onto a
heatproof white plate.
Many cookbooks warn against the problem of
crystallization when making caramel. They suggest that if
you incorrectly handle the sugar as it heats, it will
crystallize and become lumpy and blocky rather than melt
into a smooth syrup. This comes about when stray
undissolved sugar crystals “infect” your syrup and cause
the whole batch to crystallize. The various methods to
avoid this include brushing down the inside of the saucepan
with cold water as you heat the sugar , putting a lid on the
saucepan as the caramel cooks so the trapped
condensation wets the sides of the pan, and never stirring
the sugar as it melts.
I’m sure that it is technically possible for unwanted
crystallization to occur , but in all my years of making
caramel, it has never happened to me. I even tried to
provoke it into occurring once at a former job in a test
kitchen and I failed. So, here I will be a contrarian and say
that I don’t think it’s a risk that is worth putting eﬀort into
avoiding. If your sugar crystallizes, just keep cooking and
stirring it until it melts into submission. Or dump it out and
start again.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
This depends on how you are serving the sauce, of course,
but you probably don’t need much more than 2 tablespoonsper person.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
You’ll need a saucepan with a heavy base. Thin pans tend to
have hot spots, which would cause the sugar to caramelize
unevenly . You’ll need a whisk, too .
STORAGE
Caramel sauces are quick and can be prepared right before
serving, if you like. P ersonally , I ﬁnd that their ﬂavor
improves with a little time, so I like to make them a day
ahead. These sauces will thicken as they cool, so to get the
right pouring or drizzling consistency , you’ll need to reheat
a caramel sauce that you’ve made ahead. A gentle nudge in
the microwave or a few minutes in a saucepan over very
low heat should do the trick. Basic caramel sauces last a
long time—at least 3 weeks in the fridge—and they freeze
exceptionally well for up to 2 months.
OTHER ROUTES TO CARAMEL
There’s a whole class of caramel sauces that don’t start
by cooking granulated sugar (sucrose). There are milk
caramels, like the Latin American dulce de leche and
cajeta and the French conﬁture de lait. F or these sauces,
you slowly cook sweetened milk, either sugar mixed with
whole milk or canned sweetened condensed cow’s milk or
goat’s milk, the latter for cajeta. The slow cooking
accomplishes the same thing that happens with the
caramel sauces in this chapter: simple sugars aretransformed into complex caramel. But in the case of
milk caramels, the natural milk sugars add their ﬂavors
as well. These sauces have a soft, dairy deliciousness all
their own, but they are time-consuming and I don’t ﬁnd
myself making them often.
The other way to get a sauce with deep caramel tones is
to fake it: simmer together brown sugar , butter , and
cream and you’ve got a caramel-like sauce closer to
toﬀee than caramel. I like the toﬀee ﬂavors you get in
these sauces, so I’m including two recipes in this chapter .
Don’t try to caramelize brown sugar on its own, however .
It contains molasses, which will burn before the sugar
toasts. 
SALTED CARAMEL SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Not so long ago, salted caramel was a novelty . But now that
people have had a chance to taste how a pinch of salt
elevates and adds complexity to caramel, it’s become the
new standard. If you’re skeptical, start with a bit less salt
than the recipe calls for and add more to taste.
1 cup/200 g granulated sugar
3 tbsp water
3/4 cup/180 ml heavy cr eam or cr ème fraîche
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1/2 tsp k osher salt
1/4 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the sugar and
water and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring
just until the sugar is moistened. Let the mixture boil,
without stirring but with an occasional swirl of the pan,
until it is a deep amber , smells like caramel, and you can
see just the tiniest wisps of smoke, 9 to 12 minutes. The
caramel will be very hot at this point. Remove the saucepan
from the heat and carefully add a little bit of the cream; the
caramel will bubble up furiously .Return the pan to low heat and whisk in the remaining
cream a little at a time (to avoid bubbling over), then whisk
in the butter , salt, and vanilla. Continue to whisk until the
sauce is very smooth, another minute or so . Remove the
pan from the heat and let the sauce cool in the pan; it will
thicken as it cools. Serve warm or at room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
weeks or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp dark rum (such as Myers’s)
with the butter and salt and use pur e almond e xtract
instead of vanilla. 
GINGER CARAMEL SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
I prefer to use fresh ginger (rather than ground) in this
sauce because its ﬂavor is more complex: you get spicy
heat, as you would with ground ginger , but you get also
bright, citrus notes. This sauce is delicious paired with
anything with apples.
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam
11/2 tbsp peeled and ﬁnely grated fr esh ginger
1 cup/200 g granulated sugar
1/4 cup/60 ml water
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1/8 tsp k osher salt
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the cream and ginger
and bring just to a simmer over medium-high heat. Remove
from the heat and let the cream infuse for 20 to 30
minutes. T aste the cream, and if it isn’t gingery enough, let
it sit for another few minutes. Strain through a ﬁne-mesh
sieve into a bowl, pressing gently on the solids to extract
the ginger ﬂavor (press too hard and the cream will have a
vegetal taste).In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the sugar and
water and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring
just until the sugar is moistened. Let the mixture boil,
without stirring but with an occasional swirl of the pan,
until it is a deep amber , smells like caramel, and you can
see just the tiniest wisps of smoke, 9 to 12 minutes. The
caramel will be very hot at this point. Remove the saucepan
from the heat and carefully add a little bit of the ginger-
infused cream; the caramel will bubble up furiously .
Return the pan to low heat and whisk in the remaining
cream a little at a time (to avoid bubbling over), then whisk
in the butter and salt. Continue to whisk until the sauce is
very smooth, another minute or so . Remove the pan from
the heat and let the sauce cool in the pan; it will thicken as
it cools. Serve warm or at room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
weeks or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated
orange zest with the butter and salt. 
COCONUT-RUM CARAMEL SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Here, you can use the thick layer of coconut cream that
settles on top of the thinner milk in a can of coconut milk or
you can buy a can of coconut cream. If you opt for the
former , be sure you don’t shake the can before you open it,
so the cream remains on top. If you decide to use the latter ,
don’t reach for cream of coconut (such as the popular Coco
Lopez brand) by mistake. It’s a totally diﬀerent product, full
of stuﬀ that you might be okay with if you’re making a piña
colada on vacation but not if you’re making this sauce.
1/2 cup/100 g lightly pack ed dark br own sugar
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1 tbsp light or dark cor n syrup
3 tbsp water
3/4 cup/180 ml coconut cr eam
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp dark rum such as Myers’s
1/4 tsp k osher salt
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine both sugars, the
corn syrup, and water and bring to a boil over medium-high
heat, stirring just until the sugars are moistened. Let the
mixture boil, without stirring but with an occasional swirlof the pan, until it is a deep amber , smells like caramel, and
you can see just the tiniest wisps of smoke, 9 to 12 minutes.
The caramel will be very hot at this point. Remove the
saucepan from the heat and carefully add a little bit of the
coconut cream; the caramel will bubble up furiously .
Return the pan to low heat and whisk in the remaining
coconut cream a little at a time (to avoid bubbling over),
then whisk in the butter , rum, and salt. Continue to whisk
until the sauce is very smooth and slightly thickened, about
2 minutes more. Remove the pan from the heat and let the
sauce cool in the pan; it will thicken as it cools. Serve warm
or at room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
weeks or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Fold 1/2 cup/110 g crushed canned or
ﬁnely chopped fr esh pineapple into the sauce. 
CHOCOLATE-CARAMEL SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Is this a caramel sauce or a chocolate sauce? That’s an
answer you’ll only discover with repeated tastings of this
luscious topping, so get your spoon ready . Pour this sauce
over vanilla ice cream and garnish with lightly toasted nuts
like a turtle sundae.
2 oz/55 g dark chocolate (about 60 per cent cacao is best),
chopped
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
2 tbsp water
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter
Kosher salt
1/4 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
Put the chocolate in a medium heatproof bowl or saucepan;
set aside.
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the sugar and
water and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring
just until the sugar is moistened. Let the mixture boil,
without stirring but with an occasional swirl of the pan,
until it is a deep amber , smells like caramel, and you cansee just the tiniest wisps of smoke, 9 to 12 minutes. The
caramel will be very hot at this point. Remove the saucepan
from the heat and carefully add a little bit of the cream; the
caramel will bubble up furiously .
Return the pan to low heat and whisk in the remaining
cream a little at a time (to avoid bubbling over), then whisk
in the butter , 1/2 tsp salt, and the vanilla. P our the hot
caramel sauce over the chocolate, let it sit for a couple of
minutes, and then whisk until the chocolate is melted and
the sauce is smooth. T aste the sauce (don’t burn your
tongue!) and add more salt, if you like. Let the sauce cool;
it will thicken as it cools. Serve warm or at room
temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
weeks or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use milk chocolate instead of dark
chocolate and add 1 tbsp hazelnut liqueur such as
Frangelico af ter blending the caramel and chocolate. 
HONEY-ORANGE CARAMEL SAUCE
MAKES 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
The key to this sauce is to make sure that the ﬂavors of the
caramel and the orange remain in balance. Unlike the other
sauces in this chapter , I cook the sugar and honey only
until amber , and not long enough to develop any bitter
notes. The orange zest has enough delicious bitterness on
its own. Use a rasp-style grater , such as a Microplane, to
ﬁnely grate the zest. Y ou can leave the zest in the sauce,
but if you want the sauce very smooth, or if the orange
ﬂavor is too strong, strain it out.
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1/2 cup/120 ml honey
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam
1/4 cup/60 ml fr esh orange juice (fr om about 1 orange)
1/2 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated orange zest
1/8 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp unsalted butter
Kosher salt
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the sugar and
honey (you need a lot of extra volume in the pan because
the honey makes the mixture foam up during cooking) over
medium-high heat. Cook, using a small whisk or metalspoon to stir frequently , until the sugar and honey are
blended and the sugar melts. Continue to boil, stirring as
needed to keep the foam from overﬂowing, until the
mixture is rich amber and smells like caramel, 6 to 8
minutes. A t this point, you can test the color of the caramel
by spooning a few drops of it onto a heatproof white plate.
Do not let the caramel get so dark that it starts to smell
burnt or bitter .
Add the cream and orange juice and boil, stirring
frequently , until the sauce has thickened a bit and is very
smooth, 6 to 8 minutes. Remove from the heat, stir in the
orange zest, vanilla, butter , and a pinch of salt. T aste and
add more vanilla or salt if needed, but don’t let those
ﬂavors overwhelm the delicate orange and honey notes.
Strain the sauce, if you like. Serve warm or at room
temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
weeks or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use tangerine or Meyer lemon zest and
juice instead of orange. 
MARY JANE’S MOLASSES SAUCE
MAKES 1 3/4 CUPS/420 ML
Molasses isn’t everyone’s cup of tea, but for those of us
who love it, there’s nothing better than a chewy molasses–
peanut butter Mary Jane candy . That was my inspiration for
this sauce, which is wonderful with apple cake or
gingerbread, or over a big scoop of vanilla or coﬀee ice
cream.
1 cup/200 g lightly pack ed light or dark br own sugar
3/4 cup/180 ml heavy cr eam
1/4 cup/60 ml unsulfur ed light or dark molasses, plus mor e if
needed
1/4 cup/70 g cr eamy peanut butter, plus mor e if needed
Kosher salt
1 tbsp honey, plus mor e if needed
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine the sugar , cream,
molasses, peanut butter , and a pinch of salt and bring to a
boil (you need a lot of extra volume in the pan because the
mixture will foam up during cooking) over medium-high
heat, stirring until blended. Once the mixture is at a boil,
reduce the heat to a gentle simmer and cook, stirring
occasionally , until slightly reduced and very syrupy , 4 to 6
minutes.Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the honey until
smooth. Let the sauce cool in the pan brieﬂy , then taste and
adjust with more molasses, honey , peanut butter , or salt if
needed. The sauce will thicken as it cools. Serve warm or at
room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
month or freeze in a ziplock freezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp pure maple syrup, preferably
grade B, with the honey . 
BUTTER-RUM TOFFEE SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
Boiling brown sugar with butter and heavy cream makes a
sauce that isn’t technically caramel, but it shares the same
deep and delicious tawny ﬂavor . The rum you use here is
key to the ﬂavor of the sauce, so aim for a good dark
Jamaican variety .
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter
2/3 cup/130 g lightly pack ed light or dark br own sugar
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam
1/4 cup/60 ml light cor n syrup
Kosher salt
3 tbsp dark rum such as Myers’s
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the butter , brown
sugar , cream, corn syrup, and 1/2 tsp salt and bring to a boil
over medium-high heat. Boil, stirring occasionally , until the
sauce is smooth, glossy , and slightly thickened, about 4
minutes.
Remove from the heat and stir in the rum. Let the sauce
cool slightly and then taste it and add a little more salt if
needed. The sauce will thicken as it cools. Serve warm or at
room temperature.STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3
weeks or fr eeze in a ziplock fr eezer bag for up to 2 months.
QUICK CHANGE  Use bourbon instead of rum and add 1/2
tsp pur e vanilla e xtract with the bourbon.
BUTTERY APPLE BREAD PUDDING with
GINGER CARAMEL SAUCE and CRÈME
FRAÎCHE
SERVES 6
Whenever I make bread pudding,
I indulge in a fantasy about a life
in which I’m cooking for
farmhands or a big family or
some other situation in which I
need to make delicious food with
extreme economy , not letting
even a crust of bread go to waste.
But I don’t live on a farm, and
you can make a great bread
pudding from almost any kind of
leftover bread, with the exception
of “everything” bagels, perhaps,
or a dark pumpernickel. I rarely
have any leftover bread on hand, so if I want to make this
pudding, I buy bread expressly for it. Challah or brioche
makes a rich and tender pudding, and white artisanal
loaves make a denser but still delicious pudding. Y ou can
serve this dessert warm from the oven or cold the next day ,and it microwaves beautifully if you want to warm it up for
breakfast.
1 lb/455 g br ead such as challah, brioche, or a rustic white
artisanal loaf, crusts lef t on unless tough, cut into 1-in/2.5-
cm cubes
21/2 cups/600 ml half -and-half or whole milk
1 cup/200 g plus 2 tsp granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
1/2 tsp gr ound cinnamon
Large pinch of fr eshly grated nutmeg
Pinch of k osher salt
5 tbsp/70 g unsalted butter, plus mor e for the souﬄé dish
13/4 lb/800 g apples such as Braebur n, Pink Lady, or F uji,
halved, cor ed, peeled, and cut into 1/8-in/3-mm slices
1 cup/240 ml cr ème fraîche
1 cup/240 ml Ginger Caramel Sauce
Arrange the bread in a single layer on a large baking sheet
and leave it on the counter overnight to dry out. (Or dry the
bread in a 200°F/95°C oven for about 30 minutes.)
Heat the oven to 325°F/165°C/gas 3.
In a large bowl, whisk together the half -and-half , 1 cup/100
g sugar , eggs, vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt until the
sugar is dissolved. Add the bread to the bowl and gently
fold it into the custard. It will take some time for the bread
to absorb all of the custard, so keep folding.
In a large frying pan, melt 4 tbsp/55 g of the butter over
medium-high heat. When it is hot, add the apples and cook,
shaking the pan frequently and ﬂipping the apples once or
twice, for about 2 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium andcontinue cooking, stirring frequently , until the apples are
soft and beginning to brown, 5 to 6 minutes more. Stir in
the remaining 2 tsp sugar and continue to cook, stirring
often, until the apples look golden and yummy , another 2 to
3 minutes.
Transfer the apples to a large plate to cool. When they are
barely warm, fold them into the bread and custard.
Lightly butter the bottom and sides of a 2-qt/2-L souﬄé
dish or baking dish with high sides (you can use a
shallower , wider dish, but you will need to shorten the
cooking time). Transfer the bread-and-apple mixture to the
dish, spreading it evenly . Cut the remaining 1 tbsp butter
into small pieces and dot the top of the pudding.
Bake the pudding until it is ﬁrm and no longer jiggly in the
center and slightly puﬀed, 45 to 60 minutes. It can be hard
to tell when the pudding is completely done, so if you have
an instant-read thermometer , use it. The pudding should
register 160°F/72°C in the center .
Let the pudding cool brieﬂy . Meanwhile, in a small bowl,
whisk the crème fraîche to loosen it. Scoop portions of the
warm pudding onto small plates or into little bowls.
Garnish each serving with a generous drizzle of caramel
sauce and a nice dollop of crème fraîche. Serve right away .
ROASTED PEARS with BUTTER-RUM
TOFFEE SAUCE, VANILLA ICE CREAM, and
TINY PECAN COOKIES
SERVES 6Roasting pears enhances their
already soft and sweet
personality , and here I up the
ante by roasting them in a
buttery toﬀee sauce. Look for
ﬁrm pears so they won’t become
mushy in the heat of the oven. If
you don’t feel like roasting the
pears, you can simply serve
sliced pears with the sauce and
cookies.
3 large or 6 small (such as F orelle) ripe yet ﬁr m pears
2 tbsp unsalted butter
3/4 cup/180 ml Butter -Rum Toﬀee Sauce
1 pt/480 ml pr emium vanilla ice cr eam
Tiny P ecan Cookies
Heat the oven to 375°F/190°C/gas 5.
Peel the pears, halve lengthwise, and scoop out the core
and any tough ﬁbers (a melon baller does this beautifully).
In a large, ovenproof frying pan, melt the butter over
medium-high heat (use two pans if all of the pears won’t ﬁt
in a single layer). Arrange the pears, cut-side down, in the
pan, nestling them so they ﬁt together without crowding.
Sauté until the cut sides are golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes,
then carefully ﬂip the pears over .
Pour the toﬀee sauce over the pears, put the pan in the
oven, and roast until the pears are very tender , 15 to 20minutes. Y ou don’t want the pears to get mushy , so begin
checking them often after about 10 minutes.
Carefully transfer the pears to shallow bowls or dessert
plates. If the sauce looks thin because of accumulated
juices, put the pan on the stove top and simmer the sauce
for a couple of minutes to reduce and thicken. When the
pears have cooled just a touch, add a scoop of ice cream to
each serving, drizzle the sauce from the pan over the pears
and ice cream, and tuck a few cookies into the ice cream to
serve. P ass the remaining cookies on a plate.
TINY PECAN COOKIES
MAKES ABOUT 7 DOZEN 1 1/2-IN/4-CM COOKIES
This recipe makes a lot of cookies, but the dough freezes
beautifully , so I suggest baking as many cookies as you like
and then freezing the rest of the dough for next time. It will
keep for up to 2 months. The cookies are meltingly
delicious, so be sure to bake some extras for the cook.
3/4 cup/85 g pecans
1 cup/225 g unsalted butter, at r oom temperatur e
1/3 cup/35 g confectioners’ sugar
1/3 cup/65 g lightly pack ed light or dark br own sugar
1/2 tsp k osher salt
2 cups/255 g unbleached all-purpose ﬂour, plus mor e for
rollingPosition one rack in the upper third and a second rack in
the lower third of the oven and heat to 375°F/190°C/gas 5.
Spread the pecans in a single layer on a large rimmed
baking sheet and toast in the oven on either rack until
fragrant and a shade or two darker—but not burnt!—about
8 minutes. Transfer to a plate to cool, and then transfer to
a food processor and pulse until ﬁnely chopped. Reduce the
oven temperature to 325°F/165°C/gas 3.
In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, or in a
large bowl with a handheld electric mixer , beat together
the butter , both sugars, and salt on medium-high speed
until well blended but not ﬂuﬀy (you don’t want to beat a
lot of air into the dough), about 1 minute. On low speed,
add the ﬂour and beat just until the ﬂour is incorporated.
Add the pecans and mix just until combined. Do not
overbeat the dough or you won’t get the meltingly tender
texture you want.
If the cookie dough is too soft to roll out, chill it for a few
minutes until it is ﬁrm. Divide the dough in half . On a
lightly ﬂoured work surface, roll out half of the dough into
a round 1/4 in/6 mm thick. Using a 1 1/2-in/4-cm round
cookie cutter , cut out as many cookies as possible. Arrange
the cookies on a large ungreased baking sheet, spacing
them at least 1 in/2.5 cm apart. Gently press the dough
scraps together , reroll, and cut out more cookies. Repeat
with the remaining half of the dough.
Bake the cookies until just slightly browned around the
edges and on the bottom, dry on top, and not doughy in the
center when you break one open, 12 to 15 minutes.
Transfer the cookies to racks and let cool completely .
STORAGE  The cookies will k eep in an airtight container at
room temperatur e for up to 1 week.SPICED APRICOT and PISTACHIO PARFAIT
with HONEY-ORANGE CARAMEL SAUCE
SERVES 4 TO 6
Here is yet another recipe by my friend and fellow food
writer Matthew Card. It’s a great example of what you can
do with simple ingredients from the pantry . Chances are
you won’t use a full batch of the caramel sauce for this
dessert, but leftovers are great stirred into a smoothie,
drizzled over oatmeal, or used as a sweetener in quick
breads.
The apricots and caramel sauce will be easiest to divide
evenly if at room temperature or even slightly warm. The
ice cream may need to be softened with a spoon to make
ﬁlling the glasses easier . If you don’t have parfait glasses,
feel free to use rocks glasses, juice glasses, or even small
Mason jars.
16 gr een car damom pods, crushed
4 whole cloves
1 cinnamon stick
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
11/4 cups/300 ml water
Large pinch of k osher salt
6 oz/170 g dried apricots, pr eferably T urkish, chopped
1 to 2 tsp fr esh lemon juice
2 to 3 cups/480 to 720 ml vanilla ice cr eam
1/2 to 3/4 cup/60 to 90 g pistachio nuts, coarsely chopped
1 to 1 1/2 cups/240 to 360 ml Honey -Orange Caramel Sauce
4 to 6 fr esh mint sprigs (optional)In a medium saucepan, combine the cardamom, cloves,
cinnamon stick, sugar , water , and salt and bring to a
simmer over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to
medium-low and simmer for 10 minutes. Remove from the
heat, strain through a ﬁne-mesh sieve, and return the syrup
to the pan. Add the apricots and simmer over medium heat
until they are soft and the liquid is largely absorbed, 10 to
15 minutes. Transfer to a bowl, let cool, and add the lemon
juice to taste.
Fill the bottom of each parfait glass with 1/4 cup/60 ml ice
cream. Divide half of the apricot mixture equally among the
glasses, top with half of the pistachios, and drizzle with half
of the caramel sauce. Repeat with the remaining ice cream
and apricots; drizzle the tops with the remaining caramel
sauce and sprinkle with the remaining pistachios. Tuck a
mint sprig into each glass, if you like, and serve right away .CHOCOLATE SAUCES
PUT THE WORDS CHOCOLA TE AND SAUCE TOGETHER
AND YOU INST ANTL Y HA VE A P ARTY. There’s something
innately festive about liquid chocolate. Even better , making
homemade chocolate sauce oﬀers huge rewards for very
little eﬀort. Indeed, once you see how easy it is, you won’t
ever buy the low-quality mass-produced stuﬀ or the high-
priced artisanal products again. Y ou are the artisan now .
And whatever your chocolate mood, you can make a
multidimensional sauce to suit it. As you vary the type of
chocolate you use and the other ingredients you add, you
can create sauces that range from a lush and creamy
ganache to a deep, dark cocoa sauce to an almost-chewy
hot fudge sauce.
For many people, the best way to serve chocolate sauce is
on a spoon, delivered directly from bowl to mouth. I do like
to sneak a spoonful now and then, but I think chocolate
sauce is in its full glory when it’s involved with other
dessert components. The most obvious is ice cream: a few
chopped nuts and a dollop of whipped cream turn chocolate
sauce and ice cream into a full-ﬂedged sundae. Drizzle
chocolate sauce over fat, ripe strawberries, or use it as
fondue for dipping banana chunks, shortbread cookies,
macadamia nuts, cubes of pound cake, or anything else
that can be dipped. Simple cakes are prime candidates for
chocolate sauces because their thirsty crumb soaks up the
deliciousness. Or , drizzle dark, slightly bitter chocolate
sauce over lightly grilled bread that has been brushed with
extra-virgin olive oil and sprinkled with coarse salt, a riﬀ on
a Spanish snack.WHAT’S GOING ON IN THIS SAUCE?
For these sauces, you are essentially melting chocolate and
adding a liquid to thin it out and create a saucy consistency .
The liquid you add (water , cream, milk, spirits) and the
ﬂavorings you use (vanilla, citrus zest) will enhance the
chocolate ﬂavor , so you need to think about how your
ingredients play together . Here are the key players:
CHOCOLA TE Your ﬁnal sauce is only as good as the
chocolate you use, and a huge array of high-quality
chocolates is available these days. My low-end chocolate
choices are Ghirardelli’s bittersweet 60 percent cacao and
Lindt Excellence Smooth Dark 70 percent cacao, two
brands that you can ﬁnd in most grocery stores for a decent
price. When I have the opportunity and the money , I will go
for Scharﬀen Berger . If I am making a sauce for a special
meal, I will use V alrhona or Michel Cluizel, two French
brands that oﬀer a range of single-origin chocolates, each
with a slightly diﬀerent character , from smoky to fruity to
sharply acidic and citrusy . The best way to know which
brand you want to use is to taste the chocolates and
compare them—a tough assignment, I know .
LIQUID  When choosing which liquid to use in a sauce, I
ﬁrst decide which aspect of the chocolate I want to
emphasize. The deep, dark almost coﬀeelike side? In that
case, I will use water , and I may even make my sauce with
cocoa powder (see below), not chocolate. Or am I looking
for the creamy , suave, nuttier side of chocolate? That calls
for cream because its ﬂavor will temper some of the acidic
bite of chocolate and it will add its own luxurious texture.
COCOA  For the most chocolaty ﬂavor of all, skip the solid
chocolate and go straight for cocoa powder , which consistsof cocoa solids with around 80 percent of the cocoa butter
removed. Y ou may be surprised at how rich and glossy a
sauce made from cocoa powder can be. I like the bolder
ﬂavor of a natural cocoa, but Dutch-processed cocoa is ﬁne
in a sauce, too . My favorite cocoa powder is a highfat one
(with about 25 percent cocoa butter) from P enzeys
(penzeys.com).
SUGAR  Whether or not I add sugar to my sauces depends
on which chocolate I am using. But in general, I tend to add
a little sugar to heighten the intensity of the sauce.
SALT I always add a healthy pinch of kosher salt to my
chocolate sauces. It doesn’t make the sauce taste salty , but
rather it adds dimension to the overall ﬂavor proﬁle of the
sauce.
WHAT CAN GO WRONG AND HOW CAN I
FIX IT?
There are two things to worry about when working with
chocolate: scorching it and having it seize up (that is, turn
into a grainy mass). But I’ve developed all of the recipes
here so that these common chocolate pitfalls are not an
issue. I don’t heat or melt the chocolate on its own (the
easiest way to accidentally scorch it), and I always add
enough liquid to the chocolate to eliminate the risk of
seizing. (T o learn more about seizing, see facing page.)
One tip to keep in mind: be sure you’ve chopped your
chocolate uniformly and ﬁnely enough so that it melts
evenly . The typical thin 3-to 4-ounce/85-to 115-gram bar of
chocolate is easy to chop with a chef ’s knife; just start at a
corner and chop your way into the bar . As that cornerbecomes a ﬂat edge, turn the bar and start chopping from
another point. Thicker slabs of chocolate can be tricky , and
you will deﬁnitely need a sturdy chef ’s knife or a heavy
serrated knife for them. Y ou can use an oyster knife or
other short, stiﬀ -bladed knife to cut oﬀ a chunk from the
larger slab: insert it into the chocolate about 2 inches/5
centimeters from the edge and then pull to crack oﬀ a
chunk. Then chop that chunk and repeat.
You can use your food processor , too, but if you have
already cut your chocolate into pieces small enough to ﬁt
into the processor , you might as well ﬁnish the job by hand.
For the recipes in this book, you don’t need the chocolate
to be chopped more ﬁnely than, say , the size of an almond.
HOW MUCH SAUCE PER SERVING?
This depends on how you’re serving the sauce, of course,
but 2 to 3 tablespoons per person is average.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
A sharp, sturdy chef ’s knife or serrated knife for chopping
and an oyster knife if you will be breaking apart a large,
thick slab. Y ou will also need a heavy saucepan for heating
cream and cooking the sauces and a whisk for blending.
STORAGE
Chocolate sauces are better after a day or so of
“mellowing,” which allows the ingredients to marry (except
for the Whipped Cream Chocolate Sauce on page 243,whose ﬂuﬀy texture must be appreciated right away). That
means they are an excellent addition to any host’s
repertoire of do-ahead desserts. They will keep in an
airtight jar or other container in the refrigerator for several
weeks and in the freezer for a couple of months or more.
Chocolate sauces do set up fairly ﬁrmly in the fridge,
however , so you must reheat them gently . I use a double
boiler to avoid any threat of scorching, but you can reheat
directly in a saucepan if you use very low heat and stir a
lot. Or , use your microwave on the lowest setting.
WHAT IS “SEIZING” AND HOW DO I
AVOID IT?
Seizing  is one of my favorite cooking terms. It sounds so
dramatic, almost dangerous! But if it happens to you,
there will be some drama, so it’s an apt term. Chocolate
seizes if a small amount of water (or watery liquid such
as brandy) ﬁnds its way into the chocolate while it is
melting. That little bit of liquid messes up the balance
among cocoa particles, sugar , and cocoa butter , causing
the nonfat ingredients to clump together . If chocolate
seizes, it will look grainy and matte rather than glossy
and smooth. But if you add enough water at the outset,
you won’t have this problem.
The rule of thumb is any added liquid must be at least 25
percent of the weight of the chocolate. Another way to
express the rule is for every four parts chocolate, you
must have one part water .WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
BITTERSWEET AND SEMISWEET
CHOCOLATE?
The chocolate industry has not standardized these terms,
which makes deciding which chocolate to buy confusing.
According to the U .S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA), any chocolate that contains at least 35 percent
chocolate liquor (another name for the ground cacao
beans, which are made up of cocoa solids and cocoa
butter , that become chocolate) can be called semisweet
or bittersweet chocolate.
To confuse us even further , many chocolates now list the
percentage of cocoa solids, usually expressed as cacao,
they contain. The more cocoa solids in the chocolate, the
fewer other ingredients it contains, so the chocolate
ﬂavor is more intense and possibly more bitter . For
instance, it is safe to presume that a chocolate with 72
percent cacao will taste more bitter than one with 60
percent cacao .
But it’s not always as simple as high percentage equals
more bitter . That’s because cacao percentage includes
the cocoa butter content as well, and extra cocoa butter
can be added to chocolate to give it a smoother ﬂavor . In
the end, it usually comes down to a matter of taste. Each
type of chocolate will have a diﬀerent ﬂavor proﬁle,
depending on the source of the cacao beans, how long
the beans were roasted, the amount of sugar or extra
cocoa butter , and the addition of vanilla or other
ﬂavorings. The term dark chocolate is not regulated, so it
can mean anything. But it is a good umbrella term for the
range of semisweet and bittersweet, and it tells you that
the chocolate isn’t milk or white. I use the term dark inthis book, and I specify a cacao percentage only when it
is important for the recipe.
Chocolates with super-high cocoa percentages can
behave diﬀerently in baking than those with lower ones,
thanks to their correspondingly lower sugar contents.
Fortunately , we don’t have to worry much about that
when making sauces. F or sauces, it is easy to adapt to
various chocolates by simply tasting the sauce as you go:
Too bitter? Add another 1/2 teaspoon sugar . Too acidic or
sharp? Add more cream or butter .
Be sure to distinguish between bittersweet and
unsweetened chocolate, however . Unsweetened chocolate
contains no sugar at all and is used only in baking. The
exception is the remarkable 99 percent cacao chocolate
from Michel Cluizel. Nibbling on a bar of his
unsweetened chocolate is like enjoying a shot of perfectly
pulled espresso: strong and bitter but complex and
enjoyable nonetheless.
And please don’t forget milk chocolate! Although it has
recently been overshadowed by all of the interest in
intensely dark chocolates, a good milk chocolate can be
sublime. FDA standards are minimal—just 10 percent
chocolate liquor and 12 percent milk solids—but the
better brands have higher chocolate-liquor contents,
making them a valid chocolate experience. Scharﬀen
Berger milk chocolate at 41 percent is yummy , though my
favorite is Bonnat, a French producer who makes three
varieties of milk chocolate with 65 percent cacao . The
texture of Bonnat makes me swoon. 
RICH DARK CHOCOLATE SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
This is an excellent all-purpose sauce, and I ﬁrmly believe
that it belongs in your fridge at all times. I use a basic
ganache method to make it: I pour hot cream over chopped
chocolate and then whisk until smooth. But I enhance the
sauce with some corn syrup to punch up the sweetness and
make it slightly thicker . I also ﬁnish it with some butter
because it makes the texture lush and balances the acidity
of the chocolate.
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam
1 tbsp light cor n syrup
4 oz/115 g dark chocolate, chopped
2 tbsp unsalted butter
Pinch of k osher salt
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the cream and corn
syrup and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat. Do not
allow the mixture to boil, which will give the cream a
“cooked” taste. Remove from the heat and whisk in the
chocolate, a few pieces at a time, until blended and smooth.
If the cream cools oﬀ too much to melt the chocolate,
return the sauce to low heat for a few seconds. Whisk inthe butter and salt until the sauce is glossy . Serve warm or
slightly cooled.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
month or fr eeze for up to 3 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE
Crème fraîche  Use 1 cup/240 ml cr ème fraîche instead of
heavy cr eam for a slightly tangier, nuttier sauce.
Mint  Add 1/4 tsp pur e pepper mint e xtract with the butter
and salt.
Crunchy-peppermint  Add 1/4 tsp pur e pepper mint e xtract
and 1/4 cup/30 g crushed pepper mint candies or candy
canes with the butter and salt. (T o crush the candies, put
them in a ziplock fr eezer bag and crush with a r olling pin, or
crush them in a mortar with a pestle.)
Mocha  Add 1 tsp instant espr esso powder to the cr eam as it
heats. If the sauce is too bitter, whisk in 1 tsp or so
granulated sugar .
Orange  Stir in 1 tsp lightly pack ed ﬁnely grated orange zest
and 1 tbsp Grand Mar nier with the butter and salt; taste and
add a touch mor e cor n syrup or some granulated sugar to
balance the alcohol if necessary . 
RASPBERRY TRUFFLE SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
Raspberry and chocolate are a clichéd combo, but there is
a reason for this duo’s popularity—it’s delicious! I call it a
truﬄe sauce because the center of most truﬄes is solid
ganache—cream and chocolate—and this sauce is simply a
loose, pourable ganache. Cooking the raspberry purée
concentrates it so that more of the perfume of the berries
and less of their acid come through. The addition of
framboise, or raspberry eau-de-vie, intensiﬁes the
raspberry component.
6 oz/170 g fr esh or thawed fr ozen raspber ries
1 tbsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp framboise (optional)
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam
4 oz/115 g dark chocolate (about 60 per cent cacao),
chopped
In a food processor , purée the raspberries until smooth
(except for any seeds). Transfer the berry purée to a small,
heavy saucepan over medium-high heat and cook, stirring
and scraping so the fruit doesn’t stick and burn, until
cooked down by about half , 4 to 6 minutes. Y ou should have
about 1/3 cup/75 ml purée. Stir in the sugar and liqueur (ifusing). Add the cream and bring just to a simmer; do not let
it boil. Remove from the heat.
Put the chocolate in a stainless-steel or other heatproof
bowl and set a ﬁne-mesh sieve over it. Strain the raspberry
cream through the sieve into the chocolate. Leave
undisturbed for about 1 minute to melt the chocolate, then
start whisking in small circles in the center of the bowl,
widening your whisking toward the outer edges of the bowl
as the sauce becomes glossy and smooth. T aste and add a
touch more sugar if needed. Serve warm or at room
temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
weeks or fr eeze for up to 3 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE  Substitute 1/2 cup/120 ml passion fruit
purée for the raspber ries; you can skip the straining step. 
CHOCOLATE-CHERRY PORT SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/2 CUPS/360 ML
There’s something old-fashioned about the ﬂavors in this
sauce, making it perfect for topping a dessert following a
traditional holiday roast beef … maybe in a dining room
with a glowing ﬁre in the ﬁreplace. No ﬁreplace? Just serve
this sauce and you’ll get the same warm glow .
1/4 cup/30 g ﬁnely chopped dried sweet cher ries
1/3 cup/75 ml tawny or ruby port
1 cup/240 ml heavy cr eam
1 tbsp light cor n syrup
4 oz/115 g dark chocolate, chopped
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1/4 tsp pur e almond e xtract
Pinch of k osher salt
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the cherries and port
and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Remove from the
heat and let sit until the cherries are soft and have cooled
completely .
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the cream and corn
syrup and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat. Do notallow the mixture to boil, which will give the cream a
“cooked” taste.
Put the chocolate in a stainless-steel or other heatproof
medium bowl, and pour the cream mixture over the
chocolate. Leave undisturbed for about 1 minute to melt
the chocolate, then start whisking in small circles in the
center of the bowl, widening your whisking toward the
outer edges of the bowl as the sauce becomes glossy and
smooth. Whisk in the butter and then stir in the cherry-port
mixture, almond extract, and salt. Serve warm or slightly
cooled.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
month or fr eeze for up to 3 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp kirsch (cher ry liqueur) instead
of the almond e xtract. 
DOUBLE-CHOCOLATE PEANUT BUTTER
SAUCE
MAKES JUST O VER 1 CUP/240 ML
These two ﬂavors like each other very much, a fact proven
by the enduring popularity of Reese’s peanut butter cups.
Using both milk chocolate and dark chocolate in this sauce
adds complexity and balances the mellow nature of the
peanut butter . I know I’m supposed to prefer natural
peanut butter , but really , Jif is my choice here. Its smooth
texture blends beautifully , and the small amount of salt and
sugar in commercial peanut butter is more than welcome in
this sauce.
3 oz/85 g milk chocolate, chopped
2 oz/55 g dark chocolate (about 70 per cent cacao), chopped
1/3 cup/85 g cr eamy peanut butter
1/4 cup/60 ml heavy cr eam, plus mor e if needed
1 tbsp unsalted butter
Kosher salt
Pour water to a depth of 1 to 2 in/2.5 to 5 cm into a medium
saucepan and place over medium heat. Rest a medium
stainless-steel bowl in the pan over (not touching) the
water . Put both chocolates and the peanut butter in the
bowl and heat, stirring frequently and taking care not toallow the water to boil hard, until the chocolate is melted
and the mixture is smooth.
Remove the bowl from the heat and stir in the cream,
butter , and a tiny pinch of salt until smooth and creamy .
Taste the sauce and add a few more drops of cream if it is
too thick, or a pinch more salt if you are a salt lover . The
sauce will thicken as it cools. Serve warm.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
month or fr eeze for up to 3 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE  Use almond or hazelnut butter instead of
peanut butter . 
MEXICAN-STYLE CHOCOLATE SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 1/4 CUPS/300 ML
Adding ﬂavors traditionally found in Mexican hot chocolate
—cinnamon, almond, and chile, in particular—gives this
sauce an intriguing complexity and spicy kick. If you’re
wary of chile heat, use less ground chipotle to start.
Sometimes I stir this sauce into hot milk for a drink that
combats drizzly winter mornings, but more often I pour it
onto a simple cake topped with a scoop of ice cream.
4 oz/115 g dark chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup/180 ml heavy cr eam
4 tsp granulated sugar
1 tsp instant espr esso powder
1/2 tsp gr ound cinnamon
1 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
1/8 tsp pur e almond e xtract
Pinch of gr ound chipotle or other good chile powder
Pinch of k osher salt
Put the chocolate in a medium stainless-steel or other
heatproof bowl.
In a small, heavy saucepan, bring the cream just to a
simmer over medium heat. Remove from the heat and stirin the sugar , espresso powder , cinnamon, vanilla, and
almond extract, ground chipotle, and salt. P our the cream
mixture over the chocolate. Leave undisturbed for about 1
minute to melt the chocolate, then start whisking in small
circles in the center of the bowl, widening your whisking
toward the outer edges of the bowl as the sauce becomes
glossy and smooth. If the sauce seems a little thick, whisk
in a few spoonfuls of very hot water to loosen it up. Serve
warm.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
month or fr eeze for up to 3 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp K ahlúa or other coﬀee liqueur
to the cr eam as you heat it. 
SPICY CURRY-COCONUT CHOCOLATE
SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
My inspiration for this sauce is the delicious Naga
chocolate bar made by V osges Haut Chocolat, which pairs
curry spices and coconut with milk chocolate. I have upped
the ante here by adding fresh ginger and a slightly spicy
glow from red pepper ﬂakes. I like serving this sauce over
rice pudding, coconut cream pie, or on crepes ﬁlled with
sautéed bananas. Of course, it’s also divine on Abby
Dodge’s delectable coconut Bundt cake on page 248.
3 tbsp granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
2 tbsp water
1 tbsp peeled and minced fr esh ginger
1/2 tsp mild cur ry powder
1/16 tsp r ed pepper ﬂak es
3/4 cup/180 ml coconut milk (stir together the thick cr eam
and thinner milk befor e measuring)
Tiny pinch of k osher salt
3 oz/85 g milk chocolate, chopped
In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the sugar and water
and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Stir in the
ginger , curry powder , and red pepper ﬂakes. Remove fromthe heat and let sit for 30 minutes, gently pressing on the
ginger with the back of a spoon a few times. Stir in the
coconut milk and salt, return to medium heat, and bring to
a gentle simmer , stirring often to dissolve the syrup on the
sides of the pan.
Put the chocolate in a medium heatproof bowl and set a
ﬁne-mesh sieve over it. Strain the coconut milk mixture
through the sieve into the chocolate. Leave undisturbed for
about 1 minute to melt the chocolate, then start whisking in
small circles in the center of the bowl, widening your
whisking toward the outer edges of the bowl as the sauce
becomes glossy and smooth. T aste and add a touch more
sugar to balance the spices if needed. Serve warm or at
room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2
weeks or fr eeze for up to 2 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 gr een or white car damom pod,
crushed, to the sugar syrup with the other spices. 
SOUR CREAM–HOT FUDGE SAUCE
MAKES 2 CUPS/480 ML
Glossy , thick, and almost chewy , this fudge sauce diﬀers
from my other chocolate sauces because it is made with
quite a bit of sugar and corn syrup as well as chocolate,
which gives it that classic fudgy texture. I use both
unsweetened chocolate and dark chocolate to keep the
sugar level in check, and I ﬁnish with a big dollop of sour
cream for a little bit of tang and a lush richness. If you
don’t have sour cream, you could use crème fraîche or
heavy cream.
This is the sauce for the classic sundae, with whipped
cream and a cherry on top, but it is also wonderful on less
obvious desserts: a slice of banana pound cake, chocolate
chip bread pudding, or a wedge of pecan tart.
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1/2 cup/100 g lightly pack ed light or dark br own sugar
1/4 cup/60 ml light cor n syrup
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter
4 oz/115 g dark chocolate (between 60 and 70 per cent
cacao), coarsely chopped or br oken into small pieces
1 oz/30 g unsweetened chocolate, coarsely chopped
1/4 cup/60 ml water
Tiny pinch of k osher salt1/4 cup/60 ml sour cr eam
In a medium, heavy saucepan, combine both sugars, the
corn syrup, butter , both chocolates, water , and salt and
bring to a boil over medium-high heat. As the mixture
heats, stir occasionally to encourage everything to melt and
blend together .
Reduce the heat until the sauce is at a simmer (if the heat
is too high, you could scorch the chocolate along the sides
of the pan) and simmer , stirring frequently , until very
glossy and slightly thickened, about 5 minutes. Remove the
pan from the heat and let the sauce cool down brieﬂy , then
stir or whisk in the sour cream. Serve hot, warm, or at
room temperature.
STORAGE  Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1
month or fr eeze for up to 3 months. If making the sauce
ahead, very gently r eheat it in a saucepan to loosen it up,
adding 2 to 3 tsp very hot water if needed to thin it out.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1/2 tsp pur e pepper mint e xtract with
the sour cr eam. 
WHIPPED CREAM CHOCOLATE SAUCE
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/480 ML
This is my version of a Hungarian chocolate sauce that my
friend and fellow La V arenne alum R andall Price learned to
make when he was chef for the American ambassador to
Hungary . It’s a sauce with an identity crisis: It’s meant to
be used as a sauce, but it’s so thick and “dollopy” that it’s
almost like a chocolate mousse.
Randall served it over crepes ﬁlled with walnuts and dried
fruit. I like to serve it with crepes smeared with a little
mascarpone, or with a waﬄe topped with a scoop of ice
cream. This sauce wants to be served right away , but you
can make the base chocolate sauce well ahead of time and
fold in the whipped cream just before serving.
6 tbsp/35 g unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar, plus mor e if needed
3/4 cup/180 ml whole milk
1 tbsp unsalted butter
Tiny pinch k osher salt
1/2 cup/120 ml heavy cr eam
Using a rubber spatula or a wooden spoon, stir together
the cocoa powder , sugar , and about 1/4 cup/60 ml of themilk in a small, heavy saucepan to make a thick paste. As
you stir , press out the lumps of cocoa powder with the back
of the spoon or the spatula.
Put the pan over medium-high heat and slowly whisk in the
remaining milk. Bring the sauce to a simmer and cook,
stirring occasionally , until any foam on the top has
disappeared and the sauce is very smooth and glossy , about
2 minutes. Whisk in the butter and salt, then taste and add
a touch more sugar , if you like. Transfer to a medium bowl
and let cool completely at room temperature, stirring often.
In a medium bowl with a handheld electric mixer , whip the
cream on medium speed until it holds ﬁrm peaks. P our
about one-fourth of the chocolate sauce into the whipped
cream and gently fold together with a rubber spatula until
most the sauce of is blended; a few streaks are ﬁne. Repeat
with the rest of the sauce in three batches. When all of the
sauce has been combined with the cream, fold until
completely blended and smooth but still billowy . Serve right
away .
STORAGE  This sauce is best served right away, but it will
be ﬁne if r efrigerated in an airtight container for up to 3
days. The sauce does not fr eeze well.
QUICK CHANGE  Add 1 tbsp brandy or Cognac with the
butter .
PROFITEROLES with CARDAMOM-COFFEE-
CARAMEL CREAM and RICH DARK
CHOCOLATE SAUCE
MAKES 30 PUFFS; SERVES 6
To my mind, proﬁteroles are the
most P arisian of desserts,
probably because I had my ﬁrst
taste of them when I went to the
Sorbonne after graduating from
college as a French major . I was
with my newly acquired, older
(and slightly dangerous) French
boyfriend at the time, so the
experience was as intense as the
chocolate sauce! I’ve deviated
from the classic ﬁlling here (it’s
usually vanilla pastry cream or
vanilla ice cream) by ﬂavoring my
cream with cardamom, coﬀee, and caramel—bringing a bit
of Scandinavia to P aris—and by folding in whipped cream
for a lighter texture.
PASTR Y PUFFS
2/3 cup/165 ml water
6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter
1/2 tsp k osher salt
2/3 cup/85 g all-purpose ﬂour
3 large eggs
FILLING
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1 tbsp water
11/2 cups/360 ml heavy cr eam
11/2 tsp instant espr esso powder
1/8 tsp gr ound car damom3 egg yolks
2 tbsp all-purpose ﬂour
Pinch of k osher salt
1 cup/240 ml Rich Dark Chocolate Sauce
TO MAKE THE P UFFS , in a small saucepan, combine the
water , butter , and salt and bring to a boil over high heat.
Add the ﬂour all at once, remove the pan from the heat,
and immediately begin stirring with a wooden spoon. Stir
until the ﬂour mixture forms a ball, then return the pan to
very low heat and continue stirring until the dough looks
shiny and smooth, 1 to 2 minutes.
Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the eggs, one at a
time, mixing in each egg fully before adding the next one.
As each new egg is added, the dough will look slippery and
curdled but will smooth out.
Position one rack in the upper third and a second rack in
the lower third of the oven and heat to 400°F/200°C/gas 6.
Line two large rimmed baking sheets with parchment
paper (this is for easy cleanup; it is okay to bake the puﬀs
directly on the baking sheets, if you like). Using two small
spoons, spoon out 30 small mounds of dough, each one
about the size of an unshelled walnut, spacing them at least
1 in/2.5 cm apart on the prepared pans. Dampen your
ﬁngertips and gently pat any wayward points of dough
down so that the mounds are fairly smooth and domed.
Put the baking sheets in the oven, reduce the temperature
to 375°F/190°C/gas 5, and bake the puﬀs until they have,
well, puﬀed and are a deep golden brown, 18 to 25
minutes. If the puﬀs are baking unevenly , switch the pans
between the racks and rotate them from back to front.Transfer the puﬀs to a cooling rack. W ith the tip of a small
knife, poke a tiny hole in the side of each puﬀ to let steam
escape. This keeps them from getting soggy .
TO MAKE THE FILLING , put 1/4 cup/50 g of the sugar and
the water in a small, heavy saucepan over medium-high
heat and cook, swirling the pan occasionally as the sugar
starts to melt, until the sugar is a deep amber , has a very
fragrant caramel smell, and you see just the tiniest wisps of
smoke, 4 to 6 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and
carefully pour in 1 cup/240 ml of the cream; it will steam
and sputter , so stand back a bit. Return the pan to the heat
and stir to dissolve the caramel. Stir in the espresso
powder and cardamom until combined and dissolved. K eep
the caramel cream warm over very low heat; do not let it
boil.
In a medium stainless-steel bowl, whisk together the egg
yolks, the remaining 1/4 cup/50 g sugar , the ﬂour , and the
salt until thoroughly blended. P our in a bit of the hot
caramel cream and whisk vigorously to blend into a paste.
Add a little more caramel cream, whisk to blend, and then
whisk the egg mixture back into the pan of caramel cream.
Return the pan to medium-high heat and bring to a boil,
whisking constantly . The pastry cream will thicken as it
cooks; if it starts getting a little lumpy , just pull it from the
heat and whisk away the lumps. Cook at a gentle boil for
about 2 minutes to cook oﬀ the raw ﬂour taste. Remove the
pan from the heat and let the pastry cream cool completely ,
whisking occasionally to prevent a skin from forming on
top.
In a medium bowl with a handheld electric mixer , whip the
remaining 1/2 cup/120 ml cream on medium-high speed
until it forms ﬁrm peaks. Whisk the cooled pastry cream to
loosen it slightly , then carefully fold about one-fourth of thewhipped cream into the pastry cream to lighten it. F old in
the remaining whipped cream just until blended. Chill for
about 15 minutes, if you have the time.
Fit a pastry bag with a plain small tip, spoon the ﬁlling into
the bag, and ﬁll each puﬀ by poking the tip into the puﬀ
and gently squeezing in the ﬁlling. If you don’t have a
pastry bag, slice each puﬀ open along the equator , leaving
a bit attached so you don’t separate the top and bottom
halves. Gently open up each puﬀ , spoon some ﬁlling into
the center , and pat the top back in place.
Pile ﬁve ﬁlled puﬀs onto each dessert plate or into each
shallow bowl. Gently heat the chocolate sauce and either
drizzle an equal portion over each serving, or bring the
sauce to the table and let the diners pour the sauce
themselves. Serve right away .
CHOCOLATE-FLECK PANNA COTTA with
RASPBERRY TRUFFLE SAUCE
SERVES 6
One of my favorite gelato ﬂavors is stracciatella, a pure
cream base with ﬁne shards of chocolate mixed in, like a
sophisticated chocolate chip. I thought those simple,
delicious ﬂavors would translate well into a panna cotta,
which is what we have here. It’s important to shave the
chocolate so the ﬂecks are delicate. Also, don’t wait too
long before folding them into the cream base. If the gelatin
in the cream has set up too much when you fold in thechocolate, you’ll end up with a lumpy texture, rather than
the desired smooth, just-set creamy consistency .
1/4 cup/60 ml cold water
11/2 cups/360 ml cr ème fraîche or heavy cr eam
1 envelope (2 1/2 tsp) granulated unﬂavor ed gelatin
3/4 cup/150 g granulated sugar
Pinch of k osher salt
2 cups/480 g plain whole-milk yogurt
Canola oil for the ramekins
2 oz/55 g dark chocolate, shaved with a vegetable peeler or
cut into ﬁne slivers with a chef’s knife
1 cup/240 ml Raspber ry Truﬄe Sauce , war med just until
ﬂuid
Pour the water in a small bowl, sprinkle the gelatin over
the top, and let sit for about 10 minutes so the gelatin
“blooms” and softens.
Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan, combine 1/2 cup/120 ml
of the crème fraîche; the sugar , and salt and bring to a
simmer over medium heat, stirring to dissolve the sugar .
Remove the pan from the heat and whisk in the gelatin
mixture until completely dissolved and smooth. Stir in the
remaining crème fraîche and the yogurt.
Strain the mixture through a ﬁne-mesh sieve into a medium
bowl that will ﬁt in your fridge. Cover with plastic wrap and
chill, stirring occasionally , until the mixture thickens to the
consistency of pancake batter , about 45 minutes.
Meanwhile, lightly oil six 3/4-cup/180-ml ramekins or little
bowls; set aside.When the cream mixture is like pancake batter (thick
enough so the bits of chocolate won’t sink to the bottom),
carefully fold in the chocolate. Evenly divide the mixture
among the prepared ramekins, cover , and chill until ﬁrm,
about 8 hours or up to overnight.
Let the panna cottas sit at room temperature 10 to 15
minues, and then run a thin knife blade around the edge of
each to loosen it from the mold. Quickly invert the mold
onto a dessert plate and let the panna cotta slide out (give
it a little shake if necessary). P our a thick ribbon of the
sauce around it and serve right away .
ABBY’S TOASTED COCONUT BUNDT CAKE
with SPICY CURRY-COCONUT CHOCOLATE
SAUCE
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM BUNDT  
CAKE; SERVES 12 TO 14
This ﬂavor-packed cake comes from Abby Dodge, one of my
original friends and teammates at Fine Cooking  magazine
and an awesome baker . I am not an awesome baker , so I
asked Abby to share a recipe that could partner well with
many of the sauces in this book, especially the exotic curry-
coconut chocolate sauce. She outdid herself .
I like this cake because although it has the buttery , eggy
richness of a traditional pound cake, it is also loaded with a
triple coconut blast. Coconut milk and coconut extract give
the cake richness and ﬂavor , and toasted coconut brings
the texture to a new level of creamy crunchiness. It is alsodelicious with any of the custard
sauces  or the truﬄe sauce  in this
book.
8 oz/225 g unsalted butter, at r oom temperatur e, plus mor e
for the pan
23/4 cups/350 g all-purpose ﬂour, plus mor e for the pan
2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp salt
2 cups/400 g granulated sugar
4 large eggs, at r oom temperatur e
1 egg yolk, at r oom temperatur e
2 tsp pur e vanilla e xtract
11/2 tsp pur e coconut e xtract
1 cup/240 ml coconut milk (stir together the thick cr eam
and thinner milk befor e measuring)
13/4 cups/175 g sweetened shr edded dried coconut, toasted
1 cup/240 ml Spicy Cur ry-Coconut Chocolate Sauce
Heat the oven to 350°F/180°C/gas 4. Butter and ﬂour a 10-
cup/2.4-L Bundt pan or other ﬂuted tube pan, tapping out
the excess ﬂour .
In a medium bowl, whisk together the ﬂour , baking powder ,
and salt. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle
attachment, beat the butter on medium speed until smooth,about 2 minutes. On medium-high speed, add the sugar and
beat until well blended and ﬂuﬀy , about 2 minutes. Add the
eggs and the egg yolk, one at a time, beating well after
each addition. Stop to scrape down the sides of the bowl
and the paddle as needed. Add the vanilla and coconut
extract and beat until combined. On low speed, add the
ﬂour mixture in three batches alternately with the coconut
milk in two batches, beginning and ending with ﬂour
mixture and mixing just until blended after each addition.
Still on low speed, add the toasted coconut and mix just
until blended.
Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the
top. Bake the cake until the top is light brown and a
toothpick inserted near the center comes out with just a
few small crumbs clinging to it, about 55 minutes.
Let cool in the pan on a rack for about 15 minutes. T ap the
edges of the pan on the counter to loosen the cake. Then
rotate the pan, tapping as you turn it. Invert the cake onto
the rack and lift oﬀ the pan. Let the cake cool completely ,
then transfer to a serving plate.
To serve, top with the chocolate sauce or cut into slices and
transfer to dessert plates. Spoon a ribbon of the chocolate
sauce around each slice.I N D E X
Italic page numbers following sauce recipes indicate other
recipes using that sauce.
A
Abby’s T oasted Coconut Bundt Cake with Spicy Curry-
Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 248
Actually T asty Béchamel Sauce, 116
Aioli, Mellow Garlic Conﬁt, 139
All-Purpose Turkey Broth, 165-66
Almonds
Blackberry-Almond Sauce, 199
Romesco Sauce, 76
Rum-Soaked Prune and Frangipane T art with Maple-
Rum Sabayon, 179-80
Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto, 41, 47-49
Toasted-Almond V inaigrette, 26
Almost Creamless Creamy V elouté Sauce, 117
Amaretti
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Grilled Figs with Classic Sabayon and Balsamic Drizzle,
176
Anchovies
Anchovy Butter Sauce, 106
Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce, 57, 66
buying, 27
Caesar-Style V inaigrette, 19, 34
Creamy Anchovy-Caper V inaigrette, 27
Sauce V ierge, 43, 50
Vitello T onnato Mayonnaise, 138, 145Angel Hair P asta with Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry T omato
Sauce, Tuna, and Green Olives, 64
Antipasto, Grilled Eggplant, with Creamy W alnut Sauce,
Tomato, and F eta, 84
Apple cider
Apple Cider-Chile Butter Sauce, 103, 110
Butternut Squash and Apple Cider Sauce, 80, 86
Apples
Apple and F ennel Salad with Candied W alnuts and
Double-Mustard V inaigrette, 29
Buttery Apple Bread Pudding with Ginger Caramel
Sauce and Crème Fraîche, 225-27
Chicken, Apple, and Hazelnut Salad with Sweet Onion-
Curry Mayonnaise, 141
Apricot and Pistachio P arfait, Spiced, with Honey-Orange
Caramel Sauce, 231
Arugula, P esto, and Ricotta Salad, Crespelle with, 47-48
Asian P eanut Sauce, 78
Asparagus
Pasta with Spring V egetables in Light, Lemony Cream
Sauce, 127
Avocados
Avocado-Lime Mayonnaise, 137, 144
Roasted Green Chile and T omatillo Sauce with A vocado,
82, 87, 144
B
Bacon-Maple V inaigrette, W arm, 28, 35
Balsamic Beurre Rouge (Balsamic-Red W ine Butter Sauce),
96, 107
Basil
A Great Basic P esto, 39, 47-48
Mellow Garlic-Basil V inaigrette, 20
Sauce V ierge, 43, 50
Savory Blackberry-Basil Sauce, 206Beans
Bean Soup with Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto,
49
Couscous with Braised V egetables in Charmoula, 51
Grilled Green Beans with V itello T onnato Mayonnaise,
145
Béarnaise Sauce, 154
Béchamel
about, 114
Actually T asty Béchamel Sauce, 116
Beef
Seared Skirt Steak with Garlicky Fried P otatoes and
“Steak Sauce” Hollandaise, 158
Very Meaty T omato Sauce, 60, 69
Berries. See also individual berries
Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190, 198
Jumble of Berries with Gratinéed Honey-Ginger-
Tangerine Sabayon, 178
Beurre Blanc, Classic (White Butter Sauce), 95
Beurre F ondu (Melted Butter), 94
Beurre manié, 164
Blackberries
Blackberry-Almond Sauce, 199
Savory Blackberry-Basil Sauce, 206
Blintzes, Ricotta, with Honey-Plum Sauce, 208-9
Blueberry Sauce, Spiced, 200, 207
Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce, 57, 66
Bread
Buttery Apple Bread Pudding with Ginger Caramel
Sauce and Crème Fraîche, 225-27
Caesar-Style Hearts of Romaine Salad with Grilled
Parmigiano-Reggiano Croutons and Lemon, 34
Eggs P oached in Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce with
Garlicky T oasts and P ecorino, 66
Fried Eggs with Garlicky Chard and Saﬀron-Red
Pepper Hollandaise, 156Romesco Sauce, 76
Simple Seafood Stew with Grilled Bread and Smoky
Red P epper Mayonnaise, 142
Smoked-Salmon Benedict Bites, 155
Broth
All-Purpose Turkey Broth, 165-66
stock vs., 165
Brussels Sprouts with T oasted W alnuts and Apple Cider-
Chile Butter Sauce, 110
Butter , 13. See also Butter sauces Butternut Squash and
Apple Cider Sauce, 80, 86
Butter sauces
about, 91-92
Anchovy Butter Sauce, 106
Apple Cider-Chile Butter Sauce, 103, 110
Balsamic Beurre Rouge (Balsamic-Red W ine Butter
Sauce), 96, 107
Beurre F ondu (Melted Butter), 94
Butter-Rum T oﬀee Sauce, 222, 228
Classic Beurre Blanc (White Butter Sauce), 95
Creamy , Lemony Butter Sauce, 97
equipment for , 92-93
ﬁxing, 92
Grapefruit-Coriander Butter Sauce, 100-101
Jalapeño-Lime-Ginger Butter Sauce, 99, 108
Lemon-Caper Butter Sauce, 98
Orange-Rosemary Balsamic Butter Sauce, 102, 109
per serving, 92
Savory T omato-Red W ine Butter Sauce, 104
Soy-Ginger Butter Sauce, 105
storing, 93
Buttery Apple Bread Pudding with Ginger Caramel Sauce
and Crème Fraîche, 225-27
CCabbage
Quick Fish T acos with A vocado-Lime Mayonnaise and
Salsa V erde, 144
Caesar-Style V inaigrette, 19, 34
Cakes
Abby’s T oasted Coconut Bundt Cake with Spicy Curry-
Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 248
Flourless “Brownie” Cake with Classic V anilla Bean
Crème Anglaise, 189
Homey Lemon Pudding Cake with Spiced Blueberry
Sauce, 207
Candied W alnuts, 29
Capers
Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce, 57, 66
Creamy Anchovy-Caper V inaigrette, 27
Lemon-Caper Butter Sauce, 98
Caramelized Onion Coulis, 74
Caramel sauces
about, 215-16
Chocolate-Caramel Sauce, 221
Coconut-Rum Caramel Sauce, 220
equipment for , 217
ﬁxing, 216
Ginger Caramel Sauce, 219, 225-27
Honey-Orange Caramel Sauce, 224, 231
Mary Jane’s Molasses Sauce, 223
other methods of making, 217
per serving, 217
Salted Caramel Sauce, 218
storing, 217
Carbonara Sauce, Cheater’s, 122
Cardamom Meringues, 190
Cauliﬂower
Couscous with Braised V egetables in Charmoula, 51
Roasted Cauliﬂower with Sauce V ierge, 50Chard, Garlicky , Fried Eggs with, and Saﬀron-Red P epper
Hollandaise, 156
Charmoula, Fragrant, 44, 51
Cheater’s Carbonara Sauce, 122
Cheddar cheese
Classic Macaroni and Cheese with Crisp Crumb
Topping, 126
Perfect Cheese Souﬄé, 124
Sharp Cheddar Sauce, 118, 124, 126
Cheese. See individual cheeses
Cherries
Chocolate-Cherry P ort Sauce, 238
Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce, 203, 212-13
Chicken
Chicken and P eppers Braised in V ery Mushroomy
Porcini T omato Sauce, 68
Chicken, Apple, and Hazelnut Salad with Sweet Onion-
Curry Mayonnaise, 141
Coconut-Sesame Chicken Breasts with Jalapeño-Lime-
Ginger Butter Sauce, 108
Chile sauces
about, 71-72
equipment for , 73
ﬁxing, 72
Fresh Chile and Summer T omato Salsa, 83
Fruity and Spicy Dried Red Chile Sauce, 81, 88
Jalapeño-Lime-Ginger Butter Sauce, 99, 108
per serving, 73
Roasted Green Chile and T omatillo Sauce with A vocado,
82, 87, 144
storing, 73
Chimichurri, in Spirit, 45
Chocolate. See also Chocolate sauces
bittersweet, 235
buying, 234Chocolate-Fleck P anna Cotta with R aspberry Truﬄe
Sauce, 247
Flourless “Brownie” Cake with Classic V anilla Bean
Crème Anglaise, 189
milk, 235
seizing, 235
semisweet, 235
Chocolate sauces
about, 233-34
Chocolate-Caramel Sauce, 221
Chocolate-Cherry P ort Sauce, 238
Cocoa-Coconut Crème Anglaise, 187
Double-Chocolate P eanut Butter Sauce, 239
equipment for , 234
ﬁxing, 234, 235
Mexican-Style Chocolate Sauce, 240
per serving, 234
Raspberry Truﬄe Sauce, 237, 247
Rich Dark Chocolate Sauce, 236, 244-46
Sour Cream-Hot Fudge Sauce, 242
Spicy Curry-Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 241, 248
storing, 235
Whipped Cream Chocolate Sauce, 243
Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce, 203, 212-13
Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190, 198
Cilantro
Chimichurri, in Spirit, 45
Fragrant Charmoula, 44, 51
Fresh Chile and Summer T omato Salsa, 83
Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto, 41, 47-49
Classic Beurre Blanc (White Butter Sauce), 95
Classic (but Lemony) Hollandaise, 149, 155
Classic Macaroni and Cheese with Crisp Crumb T opping,
126
Classic Mayonnaise, 133
Classic Sabayon, 173, 176Classic Sherry V inaigrette, 17
Classic V anilla Bean Crème Anglaise, 185, 189
Cocoa-Coconut Crème Anglaise, 187
Coconut
Abby’s T oasted Coconut Bundt Cake with Spicy Curry-
Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 248
Asian P eanut Sauce, 78
Cocoa-Coconut Crème Anglaise, 187
Coconut-Rum Caramel Sauce, 220
Coconut-Sesame Chicken Breasts with Jalapeño-Lime-
Ginger Butter Sauce, 108
Spicy Curry-Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 241, 248
Cognac Cream Sauce, Dijon-, 120, 128
Comforting Risotto with V ery Meaty T omato Sauce, 69
Cookies
Cardamom Meringues, 190
Tiny P ecan Cookies, 230
Cotija cheese
Simple and Delicious Enchiladas, 88
Coulis
Caramelized Onion Coulis, 74
Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190, 198
deﬁnition of , 194
Mango-Mint Coulis, 195, 206
Peach-R aspberry Coulis with a Hint of Rosemary , 197
Raspberry Coulis, 196
Smoky Red P epper Coulis, 75
Couscous
Couscous with Braised V egetables in Charmoula, 51
Lamb Meatballs in Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce
with Couscous, 212-13
Crab, Linguine with Shrimp, Scallops, and, in Spicy
Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 129
Cream, 13. See also Cream sauces Cream sauces
about, 113-14
Actually T asty Béchamel Sauce, 116Almost Creamless Creamy V elouté Sauce, 117
Cheater’s Carbonara Sauce, 122
Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce, 120, 128
equipment for , 115
ﬁxing, 114-15
Light, Lemony Cream Sauce, 119, 127
per serving, 115
Sharp Cheddar Sauce, 118, 124, 126
Spicy Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 121, 129
storing, 115
Wild Mushroom Cream Sauce, 123
Creamy Anchovy-Caper V inaigrette, 27
Creamy , Lemony Butter Sauce, 97
Creamy Lime Crème Anglaise, 186, 190
Creamy W alnut Sauce, 77, 84
Crème anglaise
Classic V anilla Bean Crème Anglaise, 185, 189
Cocoa-Coconut Crème Anglaise, 187
Creamy Lime Crème Anglaise, 186, 190
Crème fraîche, 13
Crepes
Crespelle with P esto, Ricotta, and Arugula Salad, 47-48
Ricotta Blinztes with Honey-Plum Sauce, 208-9
Crespelle with P esto, Ricotta, and Arugula Salad, 47-48
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Curry-Coconut Chocolate Sauce, Spicy , 241, 248
Custard sauces
about, 183-84
Classic V anilla Bean Crème Anglaise, 185, 189
Cocoa-Coconut Crème Anglaise, 187
Creamy Lime Crème Anglaise, 186, 190
equipment for , 184
ﬁxing, 184
Maple-Nutmeg Custard Sauce, 188
per serving, 184
storing, 184sugar in, 184
D
Desserts
Abby’s T oasted Coconut Bundt Cake with Spicy Curry-
Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 248
Buttery Apple Bread Pudding with Ginger Caramel
Sauce and Crème Fraîche, 225-27
Chocolate-Fleck P anna Cotta with R aspberry Truﬄe
Sauce, 247
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Flourless “Brownie” Cake with Classic V anilla Bean
Crème Anglaise, 189
Grilled Figs with Classic Sabayon and Balsamic Drizzle,
176
Homey Lemon Pudding Cake with Spiced Blueberry
Sauce, 207
Jumble of Berries with Gratinéed Honey-Ginger-
Tangerine Sabayon, 178
Pavlova with Mango-Mint Coulis, 206
Proﬁteroles with Cardamom-Coﬀee-Caramel Cream and
Rich Dark Chocolate Sauce, 244-46
Rice Pudding with Cardamom Meringues, Lime Crème
Anglaise, and Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190
Roasted P ears with Butter-Rum T oﬀee Sauce, V anilla
Ice Cream, and Tiny P ecan Cookies, 228
Rum-Soaked Prune and Frangipane T art with Maple-
Rum Sabayon, 179-80
Spiced Apricot and Pistachio P arfait with Honey-
Orange Caramel Sauce, 231
Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce, 120, 128
Doneness, judging, 12
Double-Chocolate P eanut Butter Sauce, 239
Double-Mustard V inaigrette, 18, 29E
Eggplant Antipasto, Grilled, with Creamy W alnut Sauce,
Tomato, and F eta, 84
Eggs. See also Custard sauces; Hollandaise sauces;
Mayonnaise sauces; Sabayon sauces Cardamom
Meringues, 190
Cheater’s Carbonara Sauce, 122
Eggs P oached in Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce with
Garlicky T oasts and P ecorino, 66
Fried Eggs with Garlicky Chard and Saﬀron-Red
Pepper Hollandaise, 156
Pavlova with Mango-Mint Coulis, 206
Perfect Cheese Souﬄé, 124
Potato Omelet with Roasted Green Chile and T omatillo
Sauce with A vocado, 87
safety and, 154
Enchiladas, Simple and Delicious, 88
F
Fennel
Apple and F ennel Salad with Candied W alnuts and
Double-Mustard V inaigrette, 29
Pasta with Spring V egetables in Light, Lemony Cream
Sauce, 127
Feta cheese
Grilled Eggplant Antipasto with Creamy W alnut Sauce,
Tomato, and F eta, 84
Lamb Meatballs in Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce
with Couscous, 212-13
Parsley-Mint P esto with W alnuts and F eta, 42, 47-48
Figs, Grilled, with Classic Sabayon and Balsamic Drizzle,
176
Fish. See also Anchovies
Angel Hair P asta with Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry
Tomato Sauce, Tuna, and Green Olives, 64Potato- Topped Halibut Fillet with Balsamic Beurre
Rouge, 107
Quick Fish T acos with A vocado-Lime Mayonnaise and
Salsa V erde, 144
Salmon Fillets on Creamy Mashed P otatoes and Turnips
with T angerine-Brown Butter V inaigrette, 32
Simple Seafood Stew with Grilled Bread and Smoky
Red P epper Mayonnaise, 142
Smoked-Salmon Benedict Bites, 155
Vitello T onnato Mayonnaise, 138, 145
Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry T omato Sauce, 55, 64
Flourless “Brownie” Cake with Classic V anilla Bean Crème
Anglaise, 189
Fontina cheese
Smoked-Salmon Benedict Bites, 155
Fool P arfait, Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic, 210
Fragrant Charmoula, 44, 51
Frangipane and Rum-Soaked Prune T art with Maple-Rum
Sabayon, 179-80
Fresh Chile and Summer T omato Salsa, 83
Fresh Orange-Smoked P aprika V inaigrette, 24, 30
Fried Eggs with Garlicky Chard and Saﬀron-Red P epper
Hollandaise, 156
Fromage blanc
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Fruits. See also Fruit sauces; individual fruits
Pavlova with Mango-Mint Coulis, 206
Fruit sauces
about, 193-94
Blackberry-Almond Sauce, 199
Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce, 203, 212-13
Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190, 198
equipment for , 194
ﬁxing, 194
Honey-Plum Sauce, 201, 208-9
Mango-Mint Coulis, 195, 206Peach-R aspberry Coulis with a Hint of Rosemary , 197
per serving, 194
Raspberry Coulis, 196
Savory Blackberry-Basil Sauce, 206
Savory Spiced Rhubarb Sauce, 204
Spiced Blueberry Sauce, 200, 207
storing, 194
Strawberry-Balsamic Sauce, 202, 210
Fruity and Spicy Dried Red Chile Sauce, 81, 88
“Fry Sauce,” Updated, 140
G
Garlic
Garlicky P otato Sauce, 79
Mellow Garlic-Basil V inaigrette, 20
Mellow Garlic Conﬁt Aioli, 139
Spicy Ginger-Lime-Garlic V inaigrette, 21
Ginger
Ginger Caramel Sauce, 219, 225-27
Honey-Ginger- Tangerine Sabayon, 174, 178
Jalapeño-Lime-Ginger Butter Sauce, 99, 108
Soy-Ginger Butter Sauce, 105
Spicy Ginger-Lime-Garlic V inaigrette, 21
Tomato-Ginger V inaigrette, 22
Goat cheese
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Goat Cheese and Leek T art with Butternut Squash
Sauce, 86
Good and V ersatile Marinara Sauce, 56, 57-61
Grapefruit-Coriander Butter Sauce, 100-101
Gravy , 162-64 , 165
A Great Basic P esto, 39, 47-48
Grilled Eggplant Antipasto with Creamy W alnut Sauce,
Tomato, and F eta, 84Grilled Figs with Classic Sabayon and Balsamic Drizzle,
176
Grilled Green Beans with V itello T onnato Mayonnaise, 145
H
Halibut
Potato- Topped Halibut Fillet with Balsamic Beurre
Rouge, 107
Simple Seafood Stew with Grilled Bread and Smoky
Red P epper Mayonnaise, 142
Havarti cheese
Smoked-Salmon Benedict Bites, 155
Hazelnuts
Chicken, Apple, and Hazelnut Salad with Sweet Onion-
Curry Mayonnaise, 141
Romesco Sauce, 76
toasting and skinning, 76
Hearts of Romaine Salad, Caesar-Style, with Grilled
Parmigiano-Reggiano Croutons and Lemon, 34
Herb sauces
about, 37-38
Chimichurri, in Spirit, 45
equipment for , 38
ﬁxing, 38
Fragrant Charmoula, 44, 51
A Great Basic P esto, 39, 47-48
Parsley-Mint P esto with W alnuts and F eta, 42, 47-48
per serving, 38
Sauce V ierge, 43, 50
Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto, 41, 47-49
storing, 38
A Very French P esto, 40, 47-48
Hollandaise sauces
about, 147-48
in a blender , 148Classic (but Lemony) Hollandaise, 149, 155
equipment for , 148
ﬁxing, 148
Lime-Brown Butter Hollandaise, 150
per serving, 148
safety and, 154
Saﬀron-Red P epper Hollandaise, 152-53 , 156
“Steak Sauce” Hollandaise, 151, 158
storing, 148
Homey Lemon Pudding Cake with Spiced Blueberry Sauce,
207
Honey
Honey-Ginger- Tangerine Sabayon, 174, 178
Honey-Orange Caramel Sauce, 224, 231
Honey-Plum Sauce, 201, 208-9
I
Ice cream
Roasted P ears with Butter-Rum T oﬀee Sauce, V anilla
Ice Cream, and Tiny P ecan Cookies, 228
Spiced Apricot and Pistachio P arfait with Honey-
Orange Caramel Sauce, 231
J
Jalapeño-Lime-Ginger Butter Sauce, 99, 108
Jumble of Berries with Gratinéed Honey-Ginger- Tangerine
Sabayon, 178
L
Lamb
Lamb and Fragrant Spices Sauce, 61
Lamb Meatballs in Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce
with Couscous, 212-13Leek and Goat Cheese T art with Butternut Squash Sauce,
86
Lemons
Anchovy Butter Sauce, 106
Caesar-Style Hearts of Romaine Salad with Grilled
Parmigiano-Reggiano Croutons and Lemon, 34
Caesar-Style V inaigrette, 19, 34
Classic (but Lemony) Hollandaise, 149, 155
Creamy , Lemony Butter Sauce, 97
Fragrant Charmoula, 44, 51
Homey Lemon Pudding Cake with Spiced Blueberry
Sauce, 207
Lemon-Caper Butter Sauce, 98
Light, Lemony Cream Sauce, 119, 127
Limes
Avocado-Lime Mayonnaise, 137, 144
Creamy Lime Crème Anglaise, 186, 190
Jalapeño-Lime-Ginger Butter Sauce, 99, 108
Lime-Brown Butter Hollandaise, 150
Spicy Ginger-Lime-Garlic V inaigrette, 21
Toasted-Almond V inaigrette, 26
Linguine with Shrimp, Crab, and Scallops in Spicy Saﬀron-
Red P epper Cream Sauce, 129
Liver , Sautéed Calves’, with Crispy Shallots, Mashed
Potatoes, and Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce, 128
M
Macaroni and Cheese, Classic, with Crisp Crumb T opping,
126
Mango-Mint Coulis, 195, 206
Maple syrup
Maple-Nutmeg Custard Sauce, 188
Maple-Rum Sabayon, 175, 179-80
Warm Maple-Bacon V inaigrette, 28, 35
Marinara Sauce, Good and V ersatile, 56, 57-61Mary Jane’s Molasses Sauce, 223
Mayonnaise sauces
about, 131-32
Avocado-Lime Mayonnaise, 137, 144
Classic Mayonnaise, 133
equipment for , 132
ﬁxing, 132
Mellow Garlic Conﬁt Aioli, 139
per serving, 132
Rosemary-Mint Mayonnaise, 134
Smoky Red P epper Mayonnaise, 136, 142
storing, 132
Sweet Onion-Curry Mayonnaise, 135, 141
Updated “Fry Sauce,” 140
Vitello T onnato Mayonnaise, 138, 145
Meatballs, Lamb, in Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce with
Couscous, 212-13
Mellow Garlic-Basil V inaigrette, 20
Mellow Garlic Conﬁt Aioli, 139
Meringues, Cardamom, 190
Mexican-Style Chocolate Sauce, 240
Mint
Mango-Mint Coulis, 195, 206
Parsley-Mint P esto with W alnuts and F eta, 42, 47-48
Rosemary-Mint Mayonnaise, 134
Mise en place, 11
Molasses Sauce, Mary Jane’s, 223
Mostarda Sauce, Chunky Cherry , 203, 212-13
Mushrooms
Very Mushroomy P orcini T omato Sauce, 58-59 , 68
Wild Mushroom Cream Sauce, 123
Mustard
Chunky Cherry Mostarda Sauce, 203, 212-13
Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce, 120, 128
Double-Mustard V inaigrette, 18, 29N
Noodles. See P asta and noodles
Nuts, 13. See also Nut sauces; individual nuts
Nut sauces
about, 71-72
Asian P eanut Sauce, 78
Creamy W alnut Sauce, 77, 84
equipment for , 73
ﬁxing, 72
per serving, 73
Romesco Sauce, 76
storing, 73
O
Oils, 13
Olives
Angel Hair P asta with Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry
Tomato Sauce, Tuna, and Green Olives, 64
Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce, 57, 66
oil, 13
Sauce V ierge, 43, 50
Onions
Caramelized Onion Coulis, 74
Sweet Onion-Curry Mayonnaise, 135, 141
Oranges
Fresh Orange-Smoked P aprika V inaigrette, 24, 30
Honey-Orange Caramel Sauce, 224, 231
Orange-Rosemary Balsamic Butter Sauce, 102, 109
Orange Salad with Fresh Orange-Smoked P aprika
Vinaigrette, Iced Onions, and Cilantro, 30
Tomato-Ginger V inaigrette, 22
P
PancettaCheater’s Carbonara Sauce, 122
Very Meaty T omato Sauce, 60, 69
Panna Cotta, Chocolate-Fleck, with R aspberry Truﬄe
Sauce, 247
Pan Sauce, 167-69
Paprika, smoked, 24
Parfaits
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Spiced Apricot and Pistachio P arfait with Honey-
Orange Caramel Sauce, 231
Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese
buying, 13
Caesar-Style Hearts of Romaine Salad with Grilled
Parmigiano-Reggiano Croutons and Lemon, 34
Caesar-Style V inaigrette, 19, 34
Cheater’s Carbonara Sauce, 122
Classic Macaroni and Cheese with Crisp Crumb
Topping, 126
Comforting Risotto with V ery Meaty T omato Sauce, 69
A Great Basic P esto, 39, 47-48
Pasta with Spring V egetables in Light, Lemony Cream
Sauce, 127
storing, 13
A Very French P esto, 40, 47-48
Parsley
Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce, 57, 66
Chimichurri, in Spirit, 45
Fragrant Charmoula, 44, 51
Parsley-Mint P esto with W alnuts and F eta, 42, 47-48
Rosemary-Mint Mayonnaise, 134
Sauce V ierge, 43, 50
A Very French P esto, 40, 47-48
Pasta and noodles
Angel Hair P asta with Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry
Tomato Sauce, Tuna, and Green Olives, 64Chicken and P eppers Braised in V ery Mushroomy
Porcini T omato Sauce, 68
Classic Macaroni and Cheese with Crisp Crumb
Topping, 126
Linguine with Shrimp, Crab, and Scallops in Spicy
Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 129
Pasta with Spring V egetables in Light, Lemony Cream
Sauce, 127
Pavlova with Mango-Mint Coulis, 206
Peach-R aspberry Coulis with a Hint of Rosemary , 197
Peanut butter
Asian P eanut Sauce, 78
Double-Chocolate P eanut Butter Sauce, 239
Pears, Roasted, with Butter-Rum T oﬀee Sauce, V anilla Ice
Cream, and Tiny P ecan Cookies, 228
Peas
Pasta with Spring V egetables in Light, Lemony Cream
Sauce, 127
Pecan Cookies, Tiny , 230
Pecorino romano cheese
Cheater’s Carbonara Sauce, 122
Eggs P oached in Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce with
Garlicky T oasts and P ecorino, 66
Peppers
Chicken and P eppers Braised in V ery Mushroomy
Porcini T omato Sauce, 68
Romesco Sauce, 76
Saﬀron-Red P epper Hollandaise, 152-53 , 156
Smoky Red P epper Coulis, 75
Smoky Red P epper Mayonnaise, 136, 142
Spicy Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 121, 129
Perfect Cheese Souﬄé, 124
Pestos. See Herb sauces
Pine nuts
A Great Basic P esto, 39, 47-48
A Very French P esto, 40, 47-48Pistachio and Apricot P arfait, Spiced, with Honey-Orange
Caramel Sauce, 231
Plum Sauce, Honey-, 201, 208-9
Pork T enderloin Medallions with W ilted Spinach and
Orange-Rosemary Balsamic Butter Sauce, 109
Port Sauce, Chocolate-Cherry , 238
Potatoes
Couscous with Braised V egetables in Charmoula, 51
Garlicky P otato Sauce, 79
Potato Omelet with Roasted Green Chile and T omatillo
Sauce with A vocado, 87
Potato- Topped Halibut Fillet with Balsamic Beurre
Rouge, 107
Salmon Fillets on Creamy Mashed P otatoes and Turnips
with T angerine-Brown Butter V inaigrette, 32
Sautéed Calves’ Liver with Crispy Shallots, Mashed
Potatoes, and Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce, 128
Seared Skirt Steak with Garlicky Fried P otatoes and
“Steak Sauce” Hollandaise, 158
Smashed New P otato Salad with W arm Maple-Bacon
Vinaigrette and Scallions, 35
Proﬁteroles with Cardamom-Coﬀee-Caramel Cream and
Rich Dark Chocolate Sauce, 244-46
Prune, Rum-Soaked, and Frangipane T art with Maple-Rum
Sabayon, 179-80
Puddings
Buttery Apple Bread Pudding with Ginger Caramel
Sauce and Crème Fraîche, 225-27
Homey Lemon Pudding Cake with Spiced Blueberry
Sauce, 207
Rice Pudding with Cardamom Meringues, Lime Crème
Anglaise, and Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190
QQuick Fish T acos with A vocado-Lime Mayonnaise and Salsa
Verde, 144
R
Raspberries
Peach-R aspberry Coulis with a Hint of Rosemary , 197
Raspberry Coulis, 196
Raspberry- Thyme V inaigrette, 23
Raspberry Truﬄe Sauce, 237, 247
Rhubarb Sauce, Savory Spiced, 204
Rice
Comforting Risotto with V ery Meaty T omato Sauce, 69
Rice Pudding with Cardamom Meringues, Lime Crème
Anglaise, and Chunky Mixed-Berry Coulis, 190
Rich Dark Chocolate Sauce, 236, 244-46
Rich Roasted- Tomato Sauce, 62-63
Ricotta cheese
Crespelle with P esto, Ricotta, and Arugula Salad, 47-48
Ricotta Blinztes with Honey-Plum Sauce, 208-9
Risotto, Comforting, with V ery Meaty T omato Sauce, 69
Roasted Cauliﬂower with Sauce V ierge, 50
Roasted Green Chile and T omatillo Sauce with A vocado, 82,
87, 144
Roasted P ears with Butter-Rum T oﬀee Sauce, V anilla Ice
Cream, and Tiny P ecan Cookies, 228
Romaine Salad, Caesar-Style Hearts of , with Grilled
Parmigiano-Reggiano Croutons and Lemon, 34
Romesco Sauce, 76
Rosemary
Orange-Rosemary Balsamic Butter Sauce, 102, 109
Peach-R aspberry Coulis with a Hint of Rosemary , 197
Rosemary-Mint Mayonnaise, 134
Roux, 114
Rum
Butter-Rum T oﬀee Sauce, 222, 228Coconut-Rum Caramel Sauce, 220
Maple-Rum Sabayon, 175, 179-80
Rum-Soaked Prune and Frangipane T art with Maple-
Rum Sabayon, 179-80
S
Sabayon sauces
about, 171-72
Classic Sabayon, 173, 176
equipment for , 172
ﬁxing, 172
Honey-Ginger- Tangerine Sabayon, 174, 178
Maple-Rum Sabayon, 175, 179-80
per serving, 172
storing, 172
Saﬀron
Saﬀron-Red P epper Hollandaise, 152-53 , 156
Spicy Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 121, 129
Salads
Apple and F ennel Salad with Candied W alnuts and
Double-Mustard V inaigrette, 29
Chicken, Apple, and Hazelnut Salad with Sweet Onion-
Curry Mayonnaise, 141
Crespelle with P esto, Ricotta, and Arugula Salad, 47-48
Caesar-Style Hearts of Romaine Salad with Grilled
Parmigiano-Reggiano Croutons and Lemon, 34
Orange Salad with Fresh Orange-Smoked P aprika
Vinaigrette, Iced Onions, and Cilantro, 30
Smashed New P otato Salad with W arm Maple-Bacon
Vinaigrette and Scallions, 35
Salmon
Salmon Fillets on Creamy Mashed P otatoes and Turnips
with T angerine-Brown Butter V inaigrette, 32
Smoked-Salmon Benedict Bites, 155
Salsa, Fresh Chile and Summer T omato, 83Salt, 12, 13
Salted Caramel Sauce, 218
Sauces. See also individual sauces by name and type
deﬁnition of , 9
making ahead, 12
portion size for , 12-13
storing, 12
traits of , 9
Sauce V ierge, 43, 50
Sausage
Very Meaty T omato Sauce, 60, 69
Sautéed Calves’ Liver with Crispy Shallots, Mashed
Potatoes, and Dijon-Cognac Cream Sauce, 128
Savory Blackberry-Basil Sauce, 206
Savory Spiced Rhubarb Sauce, 204
Savory T omato-Red W ine Butter Sauce, 104
Scallops, Linguine with Shrimp, Crab, and, in Spicy
Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 129
Seared Skirt Steak with Garlicky Fried P otatoes and “Steak
Sauce” Hollandaise, 158
Seasoning, 11-12
Seizing, 235
Sharp Cheddar Sauce, 118, 124, 126
Sherry V inaigrette, Classic, 17
Shrimp, Linguine with Crab, Scallops, and, in Spicy
Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 129
Simple and Delicious Enchiladas, 88
Simple Seafood Stew with Grilled Bread and Smoky Red
Pepper Mayonnaise, 142
Slurries, 164
Smashed New P otato Salad with W arm Maple-Bacon
Vinaigrette and Scallions, 35
Smoked-Salmon Benedict Bites, 155
Smoky Red P epper Coulis, 75
Smoky Red P epper Mayonnaise, 136, 142
Souﬄé, P erfect Cheese, 124Soup, Bean, with Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto, 49
Sour Cream-Hot Fudge Sauce, 242
Soy-Ginger Butter Sauce, 105
Spiced Apricot and Pistachio P arfait with Honey-Orange
Caramel Sauce, 231
Spiced Blueberry Sauce, 200, 207
Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto, 41, 47-49
Spicy Curry-Coconut Chocolate Sauce, 241, 248
Spicy Ginger-Lime-Garlic V inaigrette, 21
Spicy Saﬀron-Red P epper Cream Sauce, 121, 129
Spinach, W ilted, P ork T enderloin Medallions with, and
Orange-Rosemary Balsamic Butter Sauce, 109
Squash, Butternut, and Apple Cider Sauce, 80, 86
“Steak Sauce” Hollandaise, 151, 158
Strawberries
Crushed Strawberry-Balsamic F ool P arfait, 210
Strawberry-Balsamic Sauce, 202, 210
Sweet Onion-Curry Mayonnaise, 135, 141
Sweet potatoes
Couscous with Braised V egetables in Charmoula, 51
T
Tacos, Quick Fish, with A vocado-Lime Mayonnaise and
Salsa V erde, 144
Tangerines
Honey-Ginger- Tangerine Sabayon, 174, 178
Tangerine-Brown Butter V inaigrette, 25, 32
Tarts
Goat Cheese and Leek T art with Butternut Squash
Sauce, 86
Rum-Soaked Prune and Frangipane T art with Maple-
Rum Sabayon, 179-80
Tiny P ecan Cookies, 230
Toasted-Almond V inaigrette, 26
Toﬀee Sauce, Butter-Rum, 222, 228Tomatillo and Roasted Green Chile Sauce with A vocado, 82,
87, 144
Tomatoes. See also T omato sauces
Bean Soup with Spicy Cilantro-Marcona Almond P esto,
49
Grilled Eggplant Antipasto with Creamy W alnut Sauce,
Tomato, and F eta, 84
Simple Seafood Stew with Grilled Bread and Smoky
Red P epper Mayonnaise, 142
Tomato sauces
about, 53-54
Bold and Spicy T omato Sauce, 57, 66
equipment for , 54
ﬁxing, 54
Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry T omato Sauce, 55, 64
Fresh Chile and Summer T omato Salsa, 83
Good and V ersatile Marinara Sauce, 56, 57-61
Lamb and Fragrant Spices Sauce, 61
per serving, 54
Rich Roasted- Tomato Sauce, 62-63
Savory T omato-Red W ine Butter Sauce, 104
storing, 54
Tomato-Ginger V inaigrette, 22
Very Meaty T omato Sauce, 60, 69
Very Mushroomy P orcini T omato Sauce, 58-59 , 68
Tortillas
Quick Fish T acos with A vocado-Lime Mayonnaise and
Salsa V erde, 144
Simple and Delicious Enchiladas, 88
Tuna
Angel Hair P asta with Flash-Sautéed Fresh Cherry
Tomato Sauce, Tuna, and Green Olives, 64
Vitello T onnato Mayonnaise, 138, 145
Turkey Broth, All-Purpose, 165-66
Turnips and P otatoes, Creamy Mashed, Salmon Fillets on,
with T angerine-Brown Butter V inaigrette, 32U
Updated “Fry Sauce,” 140
V
Vanilla Bean Crème Anglaise, Classic, 185, 189
Vegetables. See also V egetable sauces; individual
vegetables
Couscous with Braised V egetables in Charmoula, 51
Pasta with Spring V egetables in Light, Lemony Cream
Sauce, 127
Vegetable sauces
about, 71-72
Butternut Squash and Apple Cider Sauce, 80, 86
Caramelized Onion Coulis, 74
equipment for , 73
ﬁxing, 72
Garlicky P otato Sauce, 79
per serving, 73
Romesco Sauce, 76
Smoky Red P epper Coulis, 75
storing, 73
Velouté sauce
about, 114
Almost Creamless Creamy V elouté Sauce, 117
A Very French P esto, 40, 47-48
Very Meaty T omato Sauce, 60, 69
Very Mushroomy P orcini T omato Sauce, 58-59 , 68
Vinaigrettes
about, 15-16
Caesar-Style V inaigrette, 19, 34
Classic Sherry V inaigrette, 17
Creamy Anchovy-Caper V inaigrette, 27
Double-Mustard V inaigrette, 18, 29
equipment for , 16
ﬁxing, 16Fresh Orange-Smoked P aprika V inaigrette, 24, 30
Mellow Garlic-Basil V inaigrette, 20
per serving, 16
Raspberry- Thyme V inaigrette, 23
Spicy Ginger-Lime-Garlic V inaigrette, 21
storing, 16
Tangerine-Brown Butter V inaigrette, 25, 32
Toasted-Almond V inaigrette, 26
Tomato-Ginger V inaigrette, 22
Warm Maple-Bacon V inaigrette, 28, 35
Vitello T onnato Mayonnaise, 138, 145
W
Walnuts
Brussels Sprouts with T oasted W alnuts and Apple
Cider-Chile Butter Sauce, 110
Candied W alnuts, 29
Creamy W alnut Sauce, 77, 84
Parsley-Mint P esto with W alnuts and F eta, 42, 47-48
Warm Maple-Bacon V inaigrette, 28, 35
Whipped Cream Chocolate Sauce, 243
Wild Mushroom Cream Sauce, 123MARTHA HOLMBERG  is an award-winning food writer and
editor who developed expert sauce-making technique as
assistant to Anne W illan at La V arenne Cooking School in
France, then as the publisher and editor of Fine Cooking
magazine and, most recently , as the food editor of the
Oregonian  newspaper . She is also the author of Crêpes  and
Puﬀ, both published by Chronicle Books. She lives in
Portland, Oregon.
ELLEN SIL VERMAN  is a New Y ork–based food and lifestyle
photographer . Her previous work for Chronicle Books
includes Handheld Pies .Text copyright © 2012 by Martha Holmberg.
Photographs copyright © 2012 by Ellen Silverman.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced
in any form  
without written permission from the publisher .
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
available.
eISBN 978-1-4521-0846-9
Designed by SARAH PUL VER
Prop styling by PAIGE HICKS
Food styling by REBECCA JURGEVICH
Chronicle Books LLC680 Second Street
San Francisco, California 94107
www .chroniclebooks.com