xii Contents 
C. Predicting pH and Titratable Acidity Values 
D. Estimating Changes in pH and Titratable Acidity 
E. References 
16 Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wmes 
A. Size of Experimental Lots, Containers 
B. Representative Samples 
C. Controls and Replication 
D. Chemical and Physical Analyses of Experimental Wines 
E. Sensory Evaluation 
F. References 
Appendices 
Glossary 
Index 530 
534 
537 
539 
540 
541 
542 543 
544 
547 
548 
574 
585 PREFACE 
Historically, scientific and educational books 
can be classified into three categories: those 
providing concepts and principles, those of­
fering gathered information, and those pre­
senting opinion or perspective (which mayor 
may not be instructive). 
While there are many wine-related books of 
the third kind and some of the second, there 
are few of the first, and this book attempts to 
fill that void. Of course, some aspects of cate­
gories two and three inevitably remain. 
Because our teaching program at Davis has 
always been based on the interdisciplinary ap­
proach to enology, we have pooled our expe­
rience to provide a volume that provides the 
benefits of such interaction and discussion 
rather than the more usual self-styled expert 
approach to such books. 
Much of the material in this book is used in 
our university courses in enology. These have 
been developed as part of our personal teach­
ing duties and generally include a mixture of 
scientific understanding and practical observa­
tion of the phenomena that occur during 
winemaking and in wines. The aim is to con­
trol these phenomena to produce the highest 
quality of wine for the style sought. 
Although many of the data presented and 
examples used throughout have been drawn from studies within California, the concepts 
developed will be generally useful to enolo­
gists throughout the world. 
Although this volume covers the basic prac­
tices and their rationale for successful wine 
production, wines and wine regions of the 
world and details of specialty wine production 
(such as vermouths, fruit wines, etc.) are omit­
ted as separate topics, although incorporated 
as appropriate in general explanations. The 
emphasis upon commercial scale by no means 
precludes use of the material by small-volume 
winemakers, for whom the principles of wine­
making are equally valid, although practices 
may need to be adjusted for the scale. Commer­
cial scale implies the consideration of eco­
nomics and sensible expenditure of effort and 
analyses to ensure that marketably good wine 
is produced. Winemakers have been consulted 
regarding various sections and practices con­
sidered commercially advantageous. We hope 
to have eliminated errors of omission or com­
mission; any lapses remain ours and, if in­
formed, we will clarity them in following pub­
lications. 
We intend, then, to meet the need for a 
universally useful, detailed, deep, and broad 
text in English on the science, technology, and 
practices of making wine. Very complete con-
xiii xiv Preface 
side ration will be given to the grapes to be 
used, fermentation, processing, maturation, 
stabilization, and preparation for distribution 
and sale. An emphasis on quantitative details, 
as well as qualitative, will be given where possi­
ble. Metric (USI) units will be used through­
out. An appendix is given for conversion to 
English, European, and older U.S. units. 
Very careful attention has been given to the 
design of this text so that it can be used 
section by section. Nevertheless, we highly rec­
ommend the reader begin with the introduc­
tory chapter, where the hazards, economic 
and otherwise, in commercial winemaking are 
outlined. This will give a realistic perspective 
to the joy and satisfaction that uniquely come 
from creation of this product of science and 
art-wine. 
Careful observers may notice that this book 
is the latest of a long and distinguished line of 
texts written by faculty at the University of 
California, beginning with Professor W. V. 
Cruess' The Principks and Practice of Wine Mak­
ing, first published in 1934. Subsequent edi-tions, under the title The Technology of Wine­
making, were written by Professor Cruess (Uni­
versity of California at Berkeley) and Profes­
sors M. A. Amerine, H. W. Berg, R E. Kunkee, 
C. S. Ough, V. L. Singleton, and A. D. Webb 
(University of California at Davis). The current 
volume is a completely new book, yet it con­
tinues, as did its predecessors, to embody our 
department's three-part mission of scientific 
research, teaching, and outreach to the public 
and industry. As the University of California 
moves into its 117th year of teaching and 
research in viticulture and enology, we salute 
the many who have advanced these areas be­
fore us. 
ROGER B. BOULTON 
VERNON L. SINGLETON 
LINDA F. BISSON 
RALPH E. KUNKEE 
Department of Viticulture and Enology 
University of California, Davis CHAPTER 1 
INTRODUCTION 
This chapter's topics are diverse. They are 
grouped here to set the stage. We recommend 
reading this chapter first as you learn about 
and consider going into winemaking. An occa­
sional rereading may be helpful to the practic­
ing winemaker. 
A. BASIC PHILOSOPHY OF 
THIS BOOK 
It is our intent to describe winemaking and 
enology (old spelling oenology) in a fashion, 
and to a reasonable degree of completeness, 
appropriate for a university-level course and as 
a reference for practicing enologists, but also 
understandable to the educated adult. Wine­
making is the series of operations from har­
vesting of grapes through providing bottled 
wine ready for the consumer. Enology is often 
defined as the science of winemaking, but in 
practice it combines the science, technology, 
and engineering of the process. It is the com­
bination of interdisciplinary knowledge and 
principles (from chemistry, biochemistry, mi-crobiology, chemical engineering, and nutri­
tion) which we consider to be the essence of 
enology. For that reason, these are the princi­
ples that will be emphasized throughout this 
book. We wish to explain why various opera­
tions are made, rather than merely how to 
perform them. Some points are necessarily 
complex, but we hope to provide clear under­
standing. 
Authors of books of this sort often veer to 
one extreme or the other, either making au­
thoritative statements as fact without giving 
the information upon which their conclusions 
are based, or giving tedious citations and fail­
ing to arbitrate among contending viewpoints. 
We hope to steer a middle course holding 
citations to an essential minimum and present­
ing our synthesis regarding each topic. We 
emphasize that, although we have been study­
ing, learning, and teaching about these sub­
jects individually and collectively for many 
years, we owe much to those who have pre­
ceded, corroborated, or amplified our knowl­
edge and understanding. We have made stren­
uous efforts to keep up with the literature, to 2 Introduction 
travel and consult with winemakers and re­
searchers worldwide. The task is formidable, 
especially since much of the information is in 
languages other than English, but it is eased 
by the fact that the climates of wine regions 
are pleasant and so are the people. Wine 
people are, we have verified, lovers of fine 
dining and good social interaction. We remain 
conscious of our many debts and regret that it 
is not possible to detail them here. 
In this text, winemaking in the United 
States, and particularly in California, is in­
evitably emphasized, but considerable effort 
has also been made to make the discussions as 
universally applicable as possible, regardless of 
country, locality, or size of winery. A few re­
cent books in English are worth consulting for 
viewpoints from Australia (Rankine 1989), 
Czechoslovakia (Farkas 1986), the Eastern 
United States (Jackisch 1985), France (Peynaud 
1984), and New Zealand (Jackson and Schuster 
1987). For an additional Californian view­
point, see Ough (1992). 
Making of commercial table wines from 
wine grapes is emphasized. Most of the special 
considerations are omitted for other fruits, 
including nonvinifera grapes, which habitually 
require amelioration (acid dilution, sugar ad­
dition). Making of dessert and fortified wines 
is deemphasized, partly because of their cur­
rently decreased quantitative role. Brandy 
making or distillation for wine spirits is largely 
omitted. Specialty products, such as sparkling 
wines, flavored wines, and coolers are not fully 
covered here, although pertinent comments 
affecting base wine production for them will 
be made. Alternative products from wineries, 
such as vinegar or concentrated juice, and 
byproducts, such as grape seed oil or cream of 
tartar, will receive minimal mention. 
Where there are alternate methods, we have 
described them and discussed the conse­
quences of each. In most instances, there are 
no right and wrong choices, but rather oppor­
tunities to vary wines so that diversity remains, 
as is desirable for perpetually interesting the 
consumer. To the extent these differences are recognizable in the finished wine, they con­
tribute to style. Like quality and character, 
style is a perception of the mind with different 
meanings for different individuals. This book, 
like our approach to teaching, does not try to 
convey a special style or recipe, but rather 
seeks to present understanding of the "why" 
as well as the "how" of various alternatives. 
You may want to make wines emphasizing 
one feature and your neighboring competitor 
may want to play down that feature. Hopefully, 
you will both develop loyal customers and the 
market as a whole will benefit. Perhaps the 
word competitor is poorly chosen. One of the 
pleasant features of agricultural production is 
that weather and market conditions tend to 
affect producers similarly and neighbors tend 
to be fellow sufferers or beneficiaries rather 
than competitors. They have common inter­
ests in maximizing quality, keeping defective 
or illegal wines off the market, and maintain­
ing the health and good reputation of wine­
making. They will, of course, compete on a 
style and quality basis and guard against loss of 
their market share, but usually they are friends 
with common goals more easily reached by 
cooperation than by cutthroat competition. 
For such reasons, winemakers have generally 
supported importation of distinctive wines 
from other countries with minimal restric­
tions, as long as traffic in the other direction is 
fair and dumping at uneconomic prices does 
not occur. Exposure of the consumer to the 
fun and satisfaction of the whole spectrum 
possible with wine benefits all. Furthermore, 
we firmly believe that the evidence strongly 
demonstrates that moderate consumption of 
wines with meals not only is beneficial in de­
creasing atherosclerosis and prolonging the 
average life span, but also is associated with 
making life more pleasant and socially success­
ful. This subject we cannot enlarge upon here, 
but the pride of winemakers in their profes­
sion and product is vindicated by careful study 
of the evidence gathered over millennia in 
many societies. B. PLANNING BEFORE BEGINNING 
WINEMAKING 
Here, we want to warn the prospective wine­
maker of the potential obstacles of a financial 
and regulatory nature, which may be associ­
ated with new winemaking ventures. We are 
making a point to introduce this subject early 
in the book to emphasize its importance. 
Detailed guidelines for the prospective win­
ery owner may seem strange in a textbook on 
processes of winemaking; however, we speak 
from the experience of witnessing the heart­
break of financial failures of many new winer­
ies. In the decade of the 1980s the number of 
wineries in California, and the rest of the 
United States, have increased about fourfold. 
Most of these new owners have not had the 
advantage of inheriting the wineries and the 
accompanying vineyards as have many Euro­
pean colleagues. In a few cases, the new own­
ers have been in the enviable position of 
having enough capital to consider the new 
venture a hobby, with only the vaguest worry 
about the adventure becoming solvent in some 
distant future. For others, where the financial 
backing is limited, stringent attention to the 
precautions is required. Over the last century, 
the average annual increase in wine produc­
tion in California wineries has been around 
6%, but it has come in boom and bust phases 
with production sometimes exceeding de­
mand. This is a worldwide phenomenon. The 
financial stress resulting from failure to face 
reality is especially disheartening when we see 
it in the wine aficionados whose burning de­
sire is merely to make good wine; but we have 
also seen financial catastrophes in large-scale, 
and supposedly sophisticated, corporations. 
If one is making a small amount of wine at 
home, for personal use only, a few concerns 
and restrictions apply, but as soon as winemak­
ing becomes commercial, there are many. 
Planning must take all factors into account or 
a winemaker risks many unpleasant surprises. 
The following list attempts to group and out­
line most of the things to consider. Pondering Introduction 3 
them must be circular, since the choice of one 
often affects others. The best solution must be 
arrived at by iterative thinking and rethinking 
before and during operation of a winery, like 
any other commercial enterprise. 
Over the years we have seen a number of 
wineries start up with blithe attitudes about 
"you can always buy grapes," "good wine will 
sell itself," or "we'll cross that bridge when 
the time comes." Frequently they fail at con­
siderable cost to the investors; always they have 
problems that could have been avoided if 
foreseen. In the past 30 years, in California, it 
has been common for the first two owners of 
new wineries to fail or get financially overex­
tended before perhaps the third owner begins 
to profit. Exceptions to this pattern have gen­
erally been those who planned more thor­
oughly and grew carefully with little borrow­
ing. Also, successful winemakers tended to be 
initially modest-sized, but not too small, with 
some of their own vineyards. 
1. Some Planning Considerations Before 
Making Wine 
Business Structure and Finances. 
1. Who is to own and control the operation? 
What type of company is it, sole ownership, 
corporation or partnership? 
2. How much money can I risk? How much 
additional money will be needed? 
3. How much sacrifice can I endure for how 
long? 
4. What are projected start-up costs? 
5. What are operating costs and their sched-
ules? 
6. What must be borrowed and repaid? 
7. When can sales begin? 
8. When is an operating profit likely? 
9. When is a return on investment likely? 
10. What are the liability risks and insurance 
costs? 
Regulations. 
1. What are the federal, state, and local li­
censes that must be obtained? 4 Introduction 
2. What are the Environmental Impact State­
ment requirements and considerations? 
3. What are the federal, state, and local regula­
tions that must be satisfied? 
4. What are the differences and similarities for 
(I -3) comparing any business with a winery? 
5. What are the general and special taxes that 
apply? Are they likely to change? 
Grapes. 
1. Who is to own and manage the vineyards? 
2. Where are the vineyards (location, climate, 
weather, soil) and what are the special risks 
(i.e., frosts, rain, pests, diseases)? 
3. What are the grape varieties and rootstocks 
to be used? 
4. How are the vineyards to be arranged and 
managed (rootstock, trellis, irrigation, pest 
control, pruning, etc.) 
5. What fruit composition is wanted at harvest? 
Winery. 
1. What kinds, styles of wines are to be made? 
2. Can owning a winery be avoided or delayed 
by custom crushing (contractual winemaking 
in a winery with extra capacity)? 
3. Where is the winery to be located (site, ac­
cess, utilities, marketing considerations, zon­
ing laws, neighbors, visitor facilities)? 
4. What equipment and facilities should it have 
(kinds and sizes of equipment, bottling ver­
sus contract bottling, on-site versus external, 
barrel storage, case storage, etc.)? 
5. How functional and efficient will it be 
(layout, size, maintenance, expansion op­
tions, waste disposal)? 
6. How attractive will it be (tasting room, archi­
tecture, etc.)? 
Marketing. 
1. What kinds of wines will/should be made 
for sale (generic, varietal; white, red; etc.)? 
2. What price category should be targeted (su­
perpremium, fighting varietal, house blend, 
standard, loss leader)? 
3. How can our wines be made to be good 
values at their price? 4. How will the wine be distributed and sold 
(wholesale, contract buyers, direct retail, 
restaurants, bulk, combinations)? 
5. In what markets are wines to be offered 
(local, state, nation, export, specialty, certain 
cities, catalog, etc.)? What are the expenses 
associated with entering and competing in 
these markets? 
6. What can/will be done if wines are judged 
to be lower in quality or are slower to sell 
than anticipated? 
7. How will public relations be handled and 
good publicity be sought? 
This list is undoubtedly not all-inclusive, but 
it illustrates the breadth and depth of thought 
and planning that should precede and accom­
pany making any wine. Cooke et al. (1977) 
estimated that 24 governmental and related 
agencies can be involved when new wineries 
are constructed in California and the list has 
certainly not decreased. Peterson (1975) has 
discussed the planning and construction of a 
sizeable Californian table wine winery. 
Winemaking is unusual among agricultural 
operations in that one operator often covers 
the whole operation from land to consumer. It 
is as if the shepherd grew the pasture and the 
sheep, processed the wool, wove the cloth, 
made the suit, and presented it for sale. Sup­
pose you wanted to start from scratch and 
market the best Cabernet. Preparing the vine­
yard land, particularly if it involves removing 
old vines or fruit trees and minimizing pest or 
disease carryover, is likely to take at least two 
years. From planting to reasonable crop is 
likely to take four more years, and to desired 
yield levels and stable quality can take a few 
more. The wine is likely to require at least 
three years of maturation and aging before 
release and you will be lucky if it is all sold 
within a year. So, from acquiring land to first 
meaningful return may be about nine or more 
years. Capital costs for land terracing, plant­
ing, grafting, training, trellising, etc., can be 
huge (over $100,000 per hectare) and operat­
ing costs for wages, taxes, irrigation, pest con­
trol, pruning, etc., are sizeable and annual. Of course, grapes may be purchased from grow­
ers, but growers must meet similar costs to 
remain in business. If one pioneers an area 
where wines have not been grown, land costs 
can be considerably less, but the quality may 
not prove out and attracting customers may be 
difficult. It is usually easier to succeed as win­
ery number 50 in a famed district than num­
ber one in an unknown area. 
Price and cost information will largely be 
omitted because it varies dramatically from 
country to country, even locale to locale, and 
is continually changing. A few sources and 
examples may nevertheless be useful. Cooke et 
al. (1977) estimated the construction costs (not 
including any loan interest) for a small com­
mercial winery producing 10,000 cases (1 case 
= 12 bottles @ 750 mL = 9L) of table wine 
annually in coastal districts of California at 
$1.37 million, up from $0.79 million estimated 
by Peterson (1975) in the Monterey area. If 
only direct sale at the winery was contem­
plated, extra concern for the winery's attrac­
tiveness to buyers raised the estimate to $1.7 
million. The 1977 estimate of winery construc­
tion costs of $1371 case dropped to $36 if the 
coastal winery was constructed for an annual 
production of 175,000 cases and at 2.5 million 
cases to $12 coastally or about $5/case in the 
San Joaquin Valley. These differences reflect 
economies of scale, but also differences in 
land costs and production practices. Al­
lowance must be made for inflation of costs of 
about 4% per year in the United States re­
cently. Prices of standard wines have often not 
kept pace with general inflation. 
A number of viewpoints on all aspects of 
the economics of small wineries (Moulton 
1981) include an estimate that a 25,000-case­
capacity premium table wine winery required 
about $671 case investment costs with an an­
nual cost of depreciation plus interest at 10% 
or $10.701 case. Cash operating costs per case 
were $35.75, with grapes at $900/Tm for a 
total of $461 case or $3.85/bottle. Moulton 
(1986) summarized reports from nine wineries 
with 7,000- to 800,000-case annual output, 
which showed a fourfold range of total costs Introduction 5 
from $17.75 to $68.43 per case. Production 
costs were 2.3 to 15.9% labor, 13.1 to 42.4% 
raw product (grapes) and subtotaled 45.5 to 
81.0%. The rest of the costs were assigned to 
sales and overhead and were 19.0 to 54.5% of 
the total costs. As a very rough comparison, 
the retail price including excise but not sales 
taxes is estimated to have been about $2 per 
bottle of competitive varietal wines such as 
Chenin blanc or Riesling in 1975 and $3 in 
1990. Recent tax increases have been rapidly 
adding to costs to the customer without addi­
tional return to the winemaker. 
Folwell and Castaldi (1987) further investi­
gated economics of scale under various as­
sumptions for wineries with storage cooperage 
capacity in the 2,500- to 250,000-kL range. 
Total investment costs decreased from $621 
case to $361 case as winery size increased. To­
tal operating costs similarly decreased from 
$40 to $251 case with both variable costs and 
fixed costs showing this trend. Grapes, packag­
ing, wine taxes, labor, utilities, marketing, and 
office costs were listed as variable costs and 
were 82 to 85% of the total costs. Fixed costs 
made up the remaining 15 to 18% and in­
cluded insurance, loan repayment, property 
taxes, and maintenance. The total costs of 
establishing the larger winery were greater, of 
course, but the proportionate labor costs were 
lower. Smaller wineries are more labor-inten­
sive; larger wineries can save labor by using 
more capital. Returns to smaller wineries were 
more sensitive to wine selling prices than to 
grape and input prices. 
A few general comments seem appropriate 
here regarding regulations (see also Appendix 
B). The alcoholic beverage industry of the 
United States has been called a permissive 
industry, meaning, contrary to what might be 
inferred, that nothing is permitted until ap­
proved. This industry is the only one prohib­
ited and then restarted by Constitutional 
amendment. Some holdovers persist from the 
days of prohibition. For example, prospective 
owners of wineries are investigated for good 
character and fingerprinted. Previous felony 
convictions are disqualifying. Although the 6 Introduction 
supervision by the Treasury Department's 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms 
(BATF) is much less adversarial than it once 
was, any hint of irregularity produces investi­
gation and may draw fines. Twenty-five years 
ago, if you wanted to treat a white port with 
activated carbon, you had to submit before 
and after laboratory samples and obtain per­
mission in advance for each commercial lot. 
Things are much less onerous today, but still 
not as free as most other production indus­
tries. It still pays to be sure you are square with 
the BATF and other regulatory agencies. Mter 
all, they help protect your winery and your 
customers from unfair practices by others. 
C. GENERAL SEQUENCE OF 
OPERATIONS IN WINEMAKING 
In later sections, specific operations will be 
discussed in detail, but it is essential for the 
inexperienced winemaker to refer continually 
to the overall scheme into which each opera­
tion fits. These operations interact and their 
nature, timing, and sequence are key in pro­
ducing different wine types and styles. Fur­
thermore, failure to apply each operation 
optimally increases costs, is likely to change 
quality, and can lead to failure. Wines differ so 
much that processing by rote is possible only 
for mass-produced, relatively nondescript 
wines. Such wines may be inexpensive and 
pleasant, but they are out of favor with con­
sumers and are likely to become more so since 
interest has focused on premium types with 
diverse and specific characteristics. Of course, 
quality relative to others available is still vital 
among wines competing primarily on the basis 
of low price. The U.S. market, and increas­
ingly others also, will not buy poor wine re­
gardless of low price. 
To some degree, the nature and sequence 
of winemaking operations are obvious. The 
grapes must be obtained and fermented. The 
young wine must be clarified, processed, and 
distributed to the consumer. The winemaker 
must consider that wine may be held a long time before actually' being consumed. Some 
operations may not be necessary for all wines 
(sterile filtration of microbially stable dry wines, 
for example) and others are applicable only 
where a specific style is sought (carbonic mac­
eration, sur lies, etc.). The number of times a 
process such as centrifugation, fining, or fil­
tration may be applied affects costs and ulti­
mate quality owing to the potential for loss of 
wine volume, loss of volatiles, exposure to air, 
etc. Often more experience and restraint can 
give better but less costly wine if the objective 
desired is kept firmly in mind. Some wines 
might be filtered half a dozen times and oth­
ers not at all or once. The latter is frequently 
better and certainly cheaper, barring special 
considerations. It may be fatuous to advise the 
novice winemaker "don't just do something, 
sit there," but contemplation of the ramifica­
tions should precede action in the well­
managed winery. Figure 1-1 attempts to am­
plify the general sequence of operations to 
cover the full panoply of winemaking prac­
tices. It is recommended that it be consulted 
each time a new wine type is considered. 
D. SOME HAZARDS SPECIFIC 
TO WINEMAKING 
Again, it is not appropriate here to detail all 
hazards that threaten winemakers or their em­
ployees. Many, such as risks from falling heavy 
objects, noise, electricity, boilers, slippery 
floors, rotating shafts, operating equipment or 
vehicles, are common to production industries 
and, in fact, modern life. A few are unique to 
the winery laboratory, but analysts know the 
risks around concentrated alkalis, acids, etc. 
With ordinary care and attention, wineries are 
relatively safe and pleasant places to work. 
There are a few considerations rather special 
to wine production which it seems appropriate 
to mention early, in case the prospective wine­
maker should be unaware. The relative dearth 
of specific information on winery risks un­
doubtedly reflects that such risks are small, if 
common sense is followed. The Wine Institute has from time to time formulated suggestions 
for winery safety programs, and many of the 
larger wineries have their own protocols, safety 
officers, and training programs. These are not, 
however, readily cited or generally available. 
The regulations of California (Confined 1990) 
and other states and countries (including the 
United States) are often voluminous but scat­
tered. Wineries are seldom mentioned sepa­
rately from other food production industries. 
Rankine (1989) has some details on this topic, 
and to a lesser degree so do several other 
general works on winemaking. For readers 
with a deeper interest, consultation of general 
regulatory, health, safety, chemical, physical, 
and actuarial data is recommended (see also 
Appendix E). 
In terms of known deaths caused (nearly 
one per vintage 30 years ago in California), 
carbon dioxide is probably the greatest hazard 
in wineries. Currently, CO 2 sensors and con­
stant attention have drastically reduced such 
accidents. Absent ignorance or foolhardiness, 
the risk is easily avoided. Deaths most com­
monly have been caused by entering fermen­
tors or confined spaces containing (or recently 
drained of) active alcoholic yeast fermenta­
tions and not adequately ventilated. The en­
tering person is asphyxiated (defined as killed 
or rendered unconscious through lack of oxy­
gen or excess of carbon dioxide in the body). 
CO 2 is not toxic, being naturally enhanced 
in exhaled breath and needed in small con­
tent to stimulate normal breathing. It is classed 
as a simple asphyxiant along with nitrogen or 
any other nontoxic gas or vapor that can di­
lute air below the minimum safe oxygen con­
tent. Normal dry air is 20.9% oxygen and the 
rest inert gases, mostly nitrogen with natural 
CO 2 content of about 0.03%. The minimum 
breathable level of oxygen even for short peri­
ods at low altitudes is about 18% by volume. 
California (Confined 1990) regulations specify 
19.5% oxygen and less as oxygen-deficient and 
dangerous. One reason that extinguishing a 
flame is not a very suitable indicator of bor­
derline unbreathable air is that flames may 
continue to burn below the level of oxygen Introduction 7 
necessary to maintain consciousness. Another 
is the fire hazard if alcohol vapor or other 
combustible is a diluent in the air. Since the 
introduction of electronic meters reading 
oxygen content in the air, asphyxiation 
deaths have nearly disappeared from the wine 
industry. 
If CO2 (or other inert diluent) exceeds 
about lO% of the air volume, the oxygen 
content is too low and unconsciousness occurs 
rapidly. Unless the person is removed and 
resuscitated or the atmosphere quickly im­
proved, brain death follows in a few minutes, 
much as in drowning. On the other hand, with 
quick aid and perhaps oxygen administration, 
recovery is usually rapid and complete. Espe­
cially sad winery cases have occurred when a 
worker collapses and is followed by would-be 
rescuers who also succumb. The proper proce­
dure is to use fans to actively ventilate contain­
ers and rooms having or potentially having 
appreciable CO2 until they are shown to be 
safe before entering. If there is the slightest 
doubt and access cannot be delayed, a worker 
entering, for example, a fermentor must be 
harnessed by a rope and pulley to an external 
worker able to retrieve him in case of trouble. 
Unconsciousness occurs so quickly that little 
exertion on the part of the affected person 
can be expected. Preferably, workers and res­
cuers should bear a self-contained breathing 
apparatus having a compressed air tank. 
CO2 is a particular hazard in a winery (or 
brewery, distillery) because to ferment a liter 
of 20% sugar grape juice to wine, yeasts pro­
duce about 60 liters of CO2 at low tempera­
ture, and the gas volume is proportionately 
larger at higher temperatures (see also Chap­
ter 5). If not allowed to escape, this CO 2 will 
drastically increase the pressure and may rup­
ture the container, but that is a separate haz­
ard, notably with sparkling wine. CO 2 gas is 
about 1.5 times as heavy as an equal volume of 
air and thus displaces air in low spots as it is 
vented. Gases rapidly mix by diffusion even 
without agitation (fans). As a consequence, 
once the fermentation, leak, or other source 
of CO2 or other 02-displacing gas is stopped 00 STAGE 
GRAPE 
JUICE 
TABLE WINE 
COMPLEX -!II 
-~ y; 
~ 
~ 
.to o 
2'138 
SHERRY 
t t t eee <C> Ovals = Raw materials, sources 
Rectangles = Wines 
Hexagon = Alternate products (decreasing wine yield) 
Diamond = Wastes 
Footnotes: 
A. To avoid some complexities, e.g., all the wine vinegar and all carbonic maceration are indicated 
as red. That is usual, but not necessarily true. Similarly, malolactic fermentation is 
desired in some white wines. 
B. F.w. = Finished Wine and always involves clarification and stabilization such as 8, 11, 12, 13, 14 
15, 33, 34, followed by 39, 41, 42. It mayor may not include maturation (38) or bottle 
age (40) as indicated for usual styles. 
C. Stillage and lees may be treated to recover potassium bitartrate as a by-product. Pomace may also 
yield red pigment, seed oil, seed tannin, and wine spirits as by-products. 
D. Sweet wines are the result of either arresting fermentation at an incomplete stage (by fortification, 
refrigeration, or other means of yeast inactivation) or addition of juice or concentrate. 
Operations I Actions 
1. Analyze 15. Microfilter (microbially stabilize) 29. Pomace contact 
2. Select 16. Inoculate (yeast, lactic bacteria) 30. Fortify (wine spirits addition) 
3. Harvest 17. Alcoholic fermentation 31. Champagnization, CO2 retention 
4. Carbonic maceration 18. Malolactic fermentation 32. Carbonation 
5. Destem 19. Acetification 33. Fine, protein stabilize 
6. Crush 20. Protect from air 34. Chemically stabilize (refrigerate, ion exchange) 
7. Pectinase treat 21. Aerate 35. Dehydrate 
8. S02 addition 22. Refrigerate 36. Sweeten 
9. Drain 23. Temperature control (generally low) 37. Blend 
10. Press 24. Heat (pasteurize) 38. Bulk maturation (barrel, tank) 
11. Settle 25. Distill 39. Bottle 
12. Rack 26. Concentrate (usually vacuum distill) 40. Bottle age 
13. Centrifuge 27. Alcohol removal (reverse osmosis, vacuum distill) 41. Case 
14. Filter 28. Cap management (punch down, pump over, irrigate) 42. Market 
Fig. 1. An amplified outline scheme of making various wines, alternate products, by-products, and associated wastes. 10 Introduction 
and access to even limited air circulation oc­
curs, the hazard does not long remain. In 
submarines and similar confinement, CO2 
content in the atmosphere to 0.3% or perhaps 
0.5% has not been a serious problem in mod­
erately prolonged exposure. 
Other gases that dilute the atmospheric 
oxygen content have similar effects, but may 
be more or less of a safety hazard than CO2. 
Nitrogen (N2) is purchased by wine makers to 
use as an oxygen (air) displacer from wine 
tanks, bottle headspace, etc. It is a safety con­
sideration, but is less likely a risk because its 
density is that of air (78% nitrogen) and it 
does not collect in low places, as CO2 does, 
unless much colder than the surrounding air. 
It is commonly sold in the usual steel cylinder 
for compressed gases. Such high-pressure 
cylinders pose an additional hazard that is not 
intuitively recognized by uninformed users. 
Just as a rubber balloon, inflated and released, 
will fly about, gas cylinders may do die same if 
the valve is broken off. A loose fallen tank can 
become a rocket which, as momentum builds, 
may ricochet about, smashing all in its path. 
Keep the protective shipping cap on such 
cylinders when they are not in use, treat them 
with care, and anchor them in place, valve end 
up, when not actually moving them. 
It is helpful to remember that a gram­
molecular weight (C0 2 = 44g, S02 = 64g, 
H2S = 34g, N2 = 28g, NH3 = 17g) of any gas 
occupies 22.4 liters of space at O°C (273 K) and 
one atmosphere pressure. Increased pressure 
diminishes the volume in proportion to the 
pressure (i.e., at 6 atmospheres the gas volume 
would occupy 1/6 of that at one atmosphere 
at constant temperature). Increased tempera­
ture increases gas volume in proportion to the 
absolute or Kelvin temperature (i.e., at 25°C or 
298 K, the volume of an ideal gas at constant 
pressure would be 298/273 that at O°C). One 
ppm in gases means 1 mL in a total volume of 
1000 L or one cubic meter. For S02' for 
example, 1 mL of the gas constitutes only 2.86 
mg (64 g --;-22,400 mL at standard conditions). 
In solution in wine or water 1 ppm = 1 mg/L, so it is important to keep these conventions in 
mind when comparing gas and solution con­
centrations. CO2 concentration in air of 1000 
ppm would be (without correcting for temper­
ature and pressure) 1 mL/L of air or nearly 
2 mg of CO2 per liter of gas whereas 1000 
ppm of CO 2 dissolved in water would be 1.0 g 
of CO2 per liter of solution or 500 times as 
much CO2. 
Sulfur dioxide (S02) is widely used in 
wineries in one form or another and often is 
drawn from gas cylinders containing it in 
liquified form at about 2.5 atmospheres at 
25°C. The gas is quite soluble in water to make 
an acidic solution and is very irritating to the 
eyes, nose and lungs. The safe threshold limit 
recommended for the gas in air for human 
exposure is 2 ppm (which can be detected by 
most people by smell) with a 10 ppm ceiling 
over 15 minutes (Appendix E). The eyes will 
smart and lungs be affected by 8 to 12 ppm; 
150 ppm can be endured for only a few min­
utes; 500 ppm for 30 minutes or more is 
highly dangerous; and 1000 ppm (I mL/L of 
air) or more may be fatal if exposure contin­
ues. With this and other gases, unusually sensi­
tive persons with breathing difficulties (asth­
matics) should be especially careful to avoid 
exposure. A very few individuals lack the en­
zyme sulfite oxidase and should avoid all ex­
posure to S02' because they are highly sensi­
tive. Because of extreme sensitivity to S02 by 
rare individuals, wine is required to be labeled 
"contains sulfites" if it has over 10 ppm and 
nearly all do by yeast action if not by addition. 
S02 gas is heavy, 2.3 times dry air, and like 
CO2 will temporarily collect in low places. It 
should be respected and handled very care­
fully, especially in concentrated aqueous solu­
tion or even more so in liquid form. Splashes 
in eyes or on skin can cause very serious 
damage. It is, however, so irritating and un­
pleasant that workers readily avoid it and treat 
it with respect. Serious accident incidence has 
been low. In dilute solution it is not dangerous 
and may be safely consumed in wine at low 
levels as demonstrated by centuries of use. Bisulfite salts liberate S02 in acidic solution 
(wine, grape juice) and may be convenient to 
use with less worker risk. Many wineries meter 
S02 gas into the crusher's must pump. Im­
properly done, this can deliver S02 to the 
atmosphere and reduce the effective S02 con­
centration in the juice. 
Ammonia (NH 3) gas is lighter than air and 
is only a concern if the winery has ammonia­
charged refrigeration that might leak. It is 
highly odorous and caustic to the eyes so that 
leakage is quickly detected. Over 2000 ppm 
there is no permissible exposure and effects 
are quickly very serious. Infrequent exposure 
for under one hour at 400 to 700 ppm pro­
duces eye, nose and throat irritation but ordi­
narily no serious lasting effect. At the point of 
odor recognition by most persons, about 50 
ppm, prolonged and repeated exposure pro­
duces no injury and 25 ppm is considered 
the maximum allowable concentration for an 
eight-hour working day producing no adverse 
effects for average persons (Appendix E). 
In high (and unlikely) concentrations be­
tween about IS and 29% in air, ammonia 
is flammable. 
Freon and related halogenated refrigerants 
are not flammable, but can be asphyxiants. 
Although proven safe and satisfactory as used 
in refrigerant systems, concerns about global 
destruction of atmospheric ozone are mandat­
ing the application of alternatives. 
Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) gas is liberated in 
relatively small amounts from fermentations 
lacking certain nutrients or containing dusting 
sulfur. The sulfur is used in the vineyard to 
prevent powdery mildew and if used exces­
sively or too near harvest it may yield H2S, the 
rotten-egg smelling gas, during normal fer­
mentation. Many famous health spas have this 
gas in the bathing and drinking water, not to 
mention the whole atmosphere of the area. 
We know of no cases of serious injury to 
winery workers from this cause. Under good 
vineyard and winery practices, it is absent or 
minimal since we never want this off-flavor in 
wine. Its obnoxious odor and human's high Introduction 11 
SenSItIvIty to it (threshold in air about 0.005 
ppm) help prevent appreciable exposure. Nev­
ertheless, repeated exposure may be debilitat­
ing and there is an insidious loss of detectable 
odor accompanying exposure to toxic levels. 
Hydrogen sulfide's gas density is only slightly 
greater than dry air (1.2 vs. 1.0). Over 300 
ppm for an hour is considered dangerous to 
life and health, but ISO ppm only gives slight 
symptoms after one to several hours; 10 ppm is 
considered the allowable maximum for con­
tinuous exposure (Appendix E). Any danger­
ous level is unlikely in a winery, but it is good 
to improve ventilation or leave the area, if it is 
smelled. If you must work in its high presence, 
use a self-contained breathing apparatus and 
even at low levels take frequent breaks in the 
open air to ensure odor fatigue has not set in. 
This is good advice also for other odorous 
gases including ammonia and S02. 
There are a number of good general refer­
ences to toxic hazards of these and other 
compounds. Owing to current interest in this 
area they are frequently updated. Among sev­
eral consulted in preparing these comments 
we found particularly useful those by Sax and 
Lewis (1987, 1989) and Weiss (1986). 
The final hazard to be mentioned is almost 
nonexistent as a special hazard in a table wine 
winery, but can be appreciable in a 
distillery-that of fire. Ethanol (ethyl alcohol), 
the significant component of alcoholic bever­
ages, is flammable, of course (see Appendix 
E). The explosive limits for ethanol vapor are 
3.3 to 19% in air at 60°C and one atmosphere 
of pressure according to standard handbooks, 
although such data vary somewhat depending 
on the method of measurement. Below 3.3% 
the mixture is too lean to burn and above 
19% there is insufficient air to support com­
bustion. Ethanol vapor is 1.6 times heavier 
than air and therefore lies on top of an aque­
ous alcohol solution as it is generated and 
could flow to lower places as it escapes. The 
minimum flash point has been calculated to 
be 13°C for pure ethanol (Appendix E), which 
should mean that below that temperature va-12 Introduction 
por content becomes too lean to support com­
bustion. This would be even more so for dilute 
aqueous solutions of ethanol such as wine. 
Table wine itself is certainly not flammable 
and has been used, in the absence of water, to 
put out fires associated with wineries. 
If wine is heated, however, the alcohol in 
the vapor above it is enriched and if boiled the 
ethanol must be below about 0.3% in the 
liquid for the vapor to stay too lean to burn. 
Ethanol boils at 78.3°C and with water forms 
an azeotrope 95.97% ethanol by weight boil­
ing at 78.1°C. At any temperature approaching 
boiling, the ethanol content is so enriched in 
the vapor above aqueous solutions that it is 
likely to exceed the flammability limit on the 
too rich side at least within its container. As it 
escapes into open air it could be ignited by an 
open flame. The flash point above wine is of 
the order of 45°C (Appendix E). The autoigni­
tion point of ethanol vapor is, however, fairly 
high, of the order of 265°C. 
Only at elevated wine temperatures need 
one be concerned with fire hazard associated 
with its alcohol content. At normal cellaring 
and handling temperatures and conditions risk 
is absent or essentially so even for fortified 
wines. The only instance brought to our atten­
tion in over 40 years involved baking some 
California sherry (probably 20% alcohol, 
55°C). The worker lowered an electric light 
bulb into the tank to check the level, broke 
the bulb on the tank wall, and the tank top 
was blown through the roof of the building. 
The worker was injured, but not fatally, and 
the fire did not propagate. The window of 
hazardous conditions is small, but should be 
understood and explained to workers. 
Fire insurance rates are about the same for 
wineries as for other food production plants, 
illustrating that the hazard is not significant 
under usual and sensible conditions. E. REFERENCES 
Confined Spaces. 1990. Title 8, Article 109, General 
Industry Safety Orders, State of California Divi­
sion of Industrial Safety (Reprinted 4-1-1990). 
COOKE, G. M., A. D. REED, and R. L. KEITH. 1977. 
Sample Costs for Construction of Table Wine Wineries 
in California. Leaflet 2972, Berkeley, CA: Division 
of Agricultural Sciences. 
FARKAS, J. 1986. Technology and Biochemistry of Wine, 
Vols. 1 and 2. Montreux, Switzerland: Gordon 
and Breach Science Publishers. 
FOLWELL, R. J., and M. A. CASTALDI. 1987. "Econo­
mies of size in wineries and impacts of pricing 
and product mix decisions." Agribusiness 
3(3):281-292. 
jACKISCH, P. 1985. Modern Winemaking. Ithaca, NY: 
Cornell University Press. 
JACKSON, D., and D. SCHUSTER. 1987. The Production 
of Grapes and Wines in Cool Climates. Wellington, 
New Zealand: Butterworths of New Zealand. 
MOULTON, K. S. (Ed.) 1981. The Economics of Small 
Wineries. Berkeley, CA: Cooperative Extension, 
University of California. 
MOULTON, K. S. 1986. "Wine production costs and 
some strategy considerations." Paper read at 
Seminar on Winery Economics, May 9, 1986, 
Napa, CA. 
OUGH, C. S. 1992. Winemaking Basics. Binghamton, 
NY: Food Products Press (Haworth). 
PETERSON, R. G. 1975. "An expert plans the pre­
mium winery." Wines and Vines 56(10):40B-42; 
(11):35, 36, 38; (2):32-35. 
PEYNAUD, E. 1984. Knowing and Making Wine. New 
York: john Wiley & Sons. 
RANKINE, B. 1989. Making Good Wine, A Manual of 
Winemaking Practice for Australia and New Zealand. 
Melbourne: MacMillan Co. of Australia. 
SAX, N. I., and R. J. LEWIS, SR. (Eds.). 1987. Haz­
ardous Chemicals, Desk Reference. New York: Van 
Nostrand, Reinhold. 
SAX, N. I., and R. J. LEWIS, SR. (Eds.). 1989. Danger­
ous Properties of Industrial Materials, 7th ed., 3 
Vols. New York: Van Nostrand, Reinhold. 
WEISS, G. (Ed.). 1986. Hazardous Chemicals Data Book. 
Park Ridge, NJ: Noyes Data Corp. CHAPTER 2 
VITICULTURE FOR WINEMAKERS 
INTRODUCTION 
Viticulture is a science and technology sepa­
rate from enology and winemaking per se. It 
has its own extensive literature. References 
that give more detail than possible here as well 
as additional perspectives include fairly recent 
examples in English from several different 
countries (Coombe and Dry 1988; Jackson and 
Schuster 1987; Pongnlcz 1978; Wagner 1976; 
Weaver 1976; Winkler et al. 1974). Examples 
in other languages from major wine-produc­
ing countries can also be useful (Champagnol 
1984; Galet 1988; H uglin 1986; Reynier 1989; 
Altman 1987; CurrIe et al. 1983; Kadisch 1986; 
Ferraro-Olmos 1983; Larrea-Redondo 1981; 
Fregoni 1985; Saracco 1984). Although wine­
makers should know as much as possible about 
viticulture, the professions are so demanding 
that it is difficult to be fully expert in both. 
Suitable grapes are the first indispensable 
key to success in making wine and especially 
distinctive, high-quality table wine. It has be­
come fashionable to intone "great wines are 
made in the vineyard." As with all cliches there is some truth in the statement, but the 
implication that the winemaker is just an im­
pediment to the grape grower is just as wrong 
as the reverse opinion. It is regrettable that in 
some economic situations antagonism may ex­
ist between the grower and the winemaker. A 
grower may feel the grape price should be 
higher and restrictions on yield or composi­
tion less stringent. A winemaker may believe 
that high grape prices force penny-pinching in 
other areas and that some growers want to 
produce high tonnage not necessarily great 
wine. Wineries controlled by grape-producer 
cooperatives have seldom made highly or 
widely esteemed wine. Neither have wineries 
that purchase all their grapes without regard 
to the economic health of their grape suppli­
ers, at least on a sustained basis. 
It is clearly better for both and for commer­
cial winemaking as a whole if empathy and 
cooperation prevail between the grape grow­
ers and the winemakers. The long-term best 
interests of both groups and their customers 
demand such understanding. Often the most 
successful and stable wineries own at least some 
13 14 Viticulture far Winemakers 
of their own vineyards. Through means such 
as long-term contracts and close liaison the 
best winemakers cultivate good relationships 
with their growers. 
Not all concerns of viticulturists need be of 
much direct concern to winemakers. For ex­
ample, the winemaker wants undamaged 
grapes, but seldom needs to be directly con­
cerned with particular pests and how to con­
trol them as long as approved practices are 
followed. We will focus on the viticultural as­
pects that are of most importance for the 
winemaker to understand. 
If the owner of the winery is also to own the 
vineyards, initial decisions of vineyard loca­
tion, rootstock planted, scion variety grafted, 
and trellising erected may have to be lived 
with for the winemaker's whole career. At 
best, such factors are costly to change. It is 
important that the best available choices be 
made with as much foresight as possible. If the 
grapes are to be purchased, freedom may be 
greater and the winery's investment much less, 
but alternatives will be limited and compro­
mises inevitable. If better wine is to be made, 
the winemaker must identify and successfully 
bid for the better grapes. For economic and 
other reasons the vineyards should not be too 
far from the winery. The selected growers must 
be encouraged in practices leading to the best 
wines and the optimum returns to both the 
winery and the growers. 
Starting with nothing in hand but money, 
initiating a winery involves circular decision 
processes. Probably the usual first choice is the 
country, state, region, or county in which to 
operate. Specific general and local choices of 
vineyard site and associated climatic influences 
may cause reconsideration of which grape va­
rieties are suitable and which wine types and 
styles are to be made. Accessibility to appro­
priate markets and the fashions and attitudes 
of available consumers may further modify 
choices and require rethinking of the best 
approach in a given situation. The money 
available is never sufficient to allow all deci­
sions to be made for the winemaker's ideal 
wine regardless of cost, at least if the fledgling winery is soon to be economically viable and 
more than a rich person's toy. These interac­
tions should be remembered as plans proceed 
on the grapes to be vinified and their desired 
composition. 
A. SPECIES OF GRAPES FOR WINE 
Wild grapevines usually grow into tops of trees 
and have small, dark red, seedy berries. Birds 
are the natural feeders upon grapes and prop­
agate them by scattering the seeds. Wild grapes 
are fundamentally dioecious having separate 
male (pollen-bearing, fruitless) and female 
(fruit-bearing) vines. Perhaps more than most 
plants the grapevine has been greatly modified 
by mankind in the course of adaptation to 
agriculture. Furthermore, grapes are botani­
cally isolated and therefore often very differ­
ent in their characteristics compared to other 
important crop plants. 
Grapes are, of course, dicotyledonous an­
giosperms. Perennial vines, deciduous in tem­
perate climates, they have porous weak wood, 
insufficiently strong to support themselves 
alone. One wild vine cut in Indiana showed 
126 annual rings by hand lens. It had been 
growing in a second-growth forest on trees 
half its age or less. It had fallen and rerooted 
upon contact with the earth, presumably as its 
original support trees had died or were cut. 
Larger and older vines occur wild in older 
forests and as they reroot and regenerate seem 
to have a limitless lifespan. 
Grapes belong to the genus Vitis, one of 11 
genera in the family Vitaceae. The Vitaceae, 
Leeaceae, and the Rhamnaceae families make 
up the order Rhamnales. Vitis is divided into 
the two subgenera Euvitis, the true grapes, 
and the Muscadinia. Muscadinia (or Vitis) ro­
tundifalia and a few relatives have 20 chromo­
somes and only cross with difficulty and special 
techniques with the 19-chromosome Euvitis. 
The different Euvitis species readily cross when 
pollen of one species reaches the pistil of 
another before that of its own species. In fact, 
hermaphroditic vines (nearly all commercial varieties) are usually self-fertile. Vitis encom­
passes nearly 60 wild species that have been 
described, essentially confined to the north 
temperate zone. The wine industry of the 
world, however, is built upon the one species 
Vitis vinifera L., which is native to areas of Asia 
Minor near the Black and Caspian seas and is, 
nevertheless, generally termed the European 
grape. 
Other grape species have been used to make 
wine or to produce hybrids by crossbreeding 
with V. vinifera, but in spite of local interest or 
necessity, the famous wines have come from V. 
vinifera. Progeny involving other grape species 
often require special considerations in the 
vineyard and winery. This being true, unless 
specific note is made to the contrary, all refer­
ence will be to the so-called European wine 
grape, Vitis vinifera. Culture of this species of 
grape started very early. Arguably viticulture 
was a cause, not just a result, of the earliest 
civilization in the Persian, Mesopotamian, 
Caucasian, and Mediterranean areas from 
whence occidental civilization springs. 
If V. vinifera is so important, why do we 
need to even take note of other species of 
Vitis? The native grapes of North America are 
especially diverse and numerous. Associated 
with some of them in some areas are native 
pests, diseases, and conditions, to which, over 
the ages, the wild grapes of that area became 
tolerant or immune. Among these are pow­
dery mildew (caused by Uncinula necator, once 
called Oidium), downy mildew caused by Plas­
mopara viticola (once called Peronospora), 
phylloxera insects, nematodes, winter cold, and 
summer humidity. When the early transat­
lantic explorers and colonists transferred grape 
vines between the Old and New Worlds, V. 
vinifera became exposed to accompanying new 
pests and diseases to which it was not resistant. 
With the spread of these agents, European 
vineyards died or became unproductive. The 
New World's grapes could be grown and could 
be extended into areas with pests and climate 
unsuitable for V. vinifera. 
However, the grapevines from wild North 
American sources, although resistant to spe-Viticulture for Winemakers 15 
cific conditions and pests, usually had other 
problems not found with healthy V. vinifera. 
Certain (but not all) of the North American 
species were resistant to phylloxera root lice 
and harmful nematodes. Therefore, growing 
rootstock vines, then grafting to them scions 
from V. vinifera varieties enabled tolerance to 
these pests and production of V. vinifera fruit. 
The rooting portion of the vine is the vine's 
feeder for water and inorganic nutrients. The 
same scion variety grown on different root­
stocks in different soils will have more or less 
vigor, yield, and fruit quality even though the 
fruit remains that of the scion variety. Com­
plete incompatibility of grafts, failure to unite 
and develop, is much rarer among Vitis species 
than among certain fruit trees. Nevertheless, 
the best combinations between rootstock, 
scion, and region are not static and well codi­
fied. A new strain of Phylloxera has recen tly 
invaded Californian areas planted on AxR# 1 
rootstocks and replanting with improved root­
stocks is again required. 
Rootstocks and grafting cause extra costs 
and do not transfer resistance to aboveground 
conditions. Pesticide applications are costly 
and have other disadvantages. The flavors of 
the wines produced from nonvinifera species 
are often strong and different from each other 
and from traditional V. vinifera wines. Two 
examples are the "foxy" varieties such as Con­
cord, derived from Vitis labrusca, and the Mus­
cadines with their potent and soon overpower­
ing Scuppernong-like flavor. An obvious course 
to attack these problems is to crossbreed 
among different Vitis species with the ideal 
being a direct-producing, own-rooted vine re­
sistant to both root and aboveground deleteri­
ous conditions, but with fruit composition like 
V. vinifera. This has been partially successful 
and might ultimately be completely so, but it is 
a monumental task if all the diversity ofvinifera 
varieties is to be combined with all potential 
resistances. So far, varieties with vinifera and 
nonvinifera parentage (usually incorrectly 
lumped as French hybrids in the U.S. and 
American hybrids in Europe regardless of ori­
gin) are limited in plantings. In Europe, with 16 Viticulture fur Winemaker.s 
lessening demand for ordinary wine, the 
plantings of hybrids are in fact decreasing. 
They have never been extensive in the United 
States, although locally important in some 
Eastern states. Some historical niches probably 
will survive indefinitely, such as Concord types 
for juice and jelly in the Northern United 
States and parts of Canada, and Isabella or 
other hybrids for fungal resistance in humid 
subtropical areas. It seems unlikely that 
presently available hybrid varieties will dis­
place V. vinifera scions, although sufficient ef­
fort coupled with newer genetic engineering 
techniques still could revolutionize the grape 
variety picture. For now V. vinifera, grafted 
when necessary to nonvinifera rootstocks, re­
mains the premier source for premium wines. 
The depictions of Vitis vinifera grapevines 
from as early as at least 3000 B.C. do not 
illustrate any of the male vines one would 
expect in high percentage if the vineyards had 
come from wild seed. Self-fertile 
hermaphrodite vines were apparently selected 
and propagated so effectively they had already 
replaced the wild types. Early harvesters and 
the earliest farmers were quick to note un­
usual vines with more, bigger, earlier, redder, 
white, or more flavorful fruit. To retain such 
specific characteristics, the vine must be moved 
or multiplied by vegetative propagation. The 
parent vine must be transplanted or a piece 
of it rerooted or grafted onto another vine. 
If seeds from the desirable vine are plant­
ed, each seed produces a different type 
of vine. These heterogeneous seed prog­
eny would nearly all be without the desirable 
characteristic. 
Near the beginning of the Christian era 
with already thousands of years of viticulture, 
Pliny the Elder described in considerable de­
tail about 90 varieties of grapes in use by the 
Romans. Perhaps 5000 or more varieties of V. 
vinifera and nearly as many hybrids with other 
Vitis species have now been named. With con­
tinued clonal selection and crossbreeding, the 
list can continue to grow without limit. 
Differences among grape varieties make up 
the largest and most simply recognized and controlled differences affecting wine composi­
tion and quality. Essentially all the great table 
and dessert wines of the world, whether vari­
etally labeled or not, owe their important 
characteristics in large part to a significant one 
or a small group of grape varieties. It is no 
accident that in the United States, Alsace, Aus­
tralia, South Mrica, and increasingly else­
where the grape varieties are designated on 
the labels of premium wines. Such designation 
is useful to knowledgeable consumers in re­
peat buying of wines they like. In the United 
States, if a variety is named ordinarily 75% or 
more of the wine must come from that grape; 
51 % prior to 1983. In Bordeaux, Burgundy, 
Champagne, and other areas famous for wine, 
the vineyards are limited by appellation laws to 
a certain few designated varieties in order to 
maintain the characteristics that made their 
wines famous. Nuances that make the wines 
vary by vineyard, climate, and vintage are im­
portant, but they tend to be small compared 
to differences possible among different grape 
varieties. Clearly the choice of varieties is a 
crucial one. 
B. THE GRAPE VARIETY, CLONES, 
AND VIRUSES 
Mter one settles on a given variety, complica­
tions remain. The cuttings to propagate must 
be obtained from parent vines. Since annually 
only about 50 to 100 buds can be obtained 
from anyone donor vine, a large number of 
new vines requires a sizeable number of par­
ent vines. If the mother vines were themselves 
cuttings from a single vine the variability would 
be low, but that is rarely the case. Typically, 
with our classic varieties that have been propa­
gated for hundreds if not thousands of years, 
each vine in an authentically monovarietal 
vineyard block may have somewhat different 
characteristics. This variation results from slow 
somatic mutation or genetic drift during the 
huge number of cellular generations involved. 
This divergence is more pronounced among 
older or more separate populations. So, for example, all Chardonnay vines from Napa 
County, California, may resemble each other 
more than those from Burgundy. Of course, 
this would depend upon the number, similar­
ity, and recentness of introductions from else­
where. 
Another problem is that introductions, par­
ticularly in earlier days, of essentially the same 
variety from different sources may carry dif­
ferent names. The detailed description and 
identification of different grape varieties, am­
pelography, is an esoteric science and art in 
itself. Complicated measurements and fine de­
tails of leaf shape, seed appearance, berry 
characteristics, cluster habit, etc., are invoked. 
Seldom is much note reported of flavor or 
composition data on either the fruit or its 
wine, partly because such details are more 
variable and more difficult to measure. Am­
pelographers sometimes disagree whether or 
not two vines are the same variety. The popu­
lation considered typical for a given variety in 
one place may differ from the populations of 
that variety elsewhere. 
New plants propagated from cuttings of an­
other single vine are clones of that vine. Selec­
tion of clones has been practiced to some 
degree since time immemorial in order to 
maintain the varietal identity and maintain or 
improve characteristics such as yield. The best 
and most characteristic vines are observed and 
marked in the vineyard to supply the cuttings 
for new or replacement plantings. More sys­
tematically in recent times, good clones have 
been experimentally compared and the better 
ones chosen for further propagation. 
A confusion factor has been the discovery 
(beginning about 1935) of viruses that reside 
in the vine. They can cause specific diseases 
and are carried along in the cuttings or intro­
duced through the rootstock or by certain 
insect or nematode vectors. Some of the ear­
lier clonal selections may have only reflected 
accidental escapes from viral infection or rela­
tive weakness of the virus therein and not 
necessarily a genetically superior clone of a 
given variety. Some of the presumed clonal 
differences among vines of the same variety Viticulture for Winemakers 17 
have disappeared or diminished when the vines 
are heat-treated or otherwise freed of viruses. 
Under circumstances of excessive vine vigor, 
for example, vines could give better wine when 
carrying mild viruses than when freed of them. 
Although there are some who argue this point 
(Pongracz 1978), the best approach appears to 
be to propagate only scions and rootstocks 
freed of known viruses. Control of excessive 
vigor or other problems by other appropriate 
management is clearly preferable to unknown 
levels of virus sicknesses in the vines. Califor­
nian plantings with vines freed of known 
viruses have remained true to type in varietal 
characteristics and generally give at least as 
good and often better wine and in larger yield. 
This is partly a general impression, but the 
spread of the best clones of virus-free 
Chardonnay, for example, can be documented 
to have increased tons per hectare along with 
increasing reputation and acceptance of the 
wines (Singleton 1990). 
C. VARIETY SELECTION 
1. General 
Given the importance already outlined of the 
grape variety and some of the problems indi­
cated in selecting the best example of that 
variety to propagate, it seems a daunting task 
to select the few varieties one should grow 
from among the thousands possible. There 
appear to be four kinds of reasons to select a 
certain grape variety: tractability, distinctive 
flavor, other special characteristics, and eco­
nomics-sales. These are not necessarily mutu­
ally exclusive and compromises may be re­
quired. The ultimate in tractability are those 
grapevines that are relatively easy to grow and 
very productive. Unfortunately they usually 
yield pleasant but unexciting wines that gain 
no great reputation even when widely planted. 
Airen, a white variety almost unknown outside 
of Spain, is planted on about 30% of the total 
vineyard area of that country. It is probably 
the most widely planted grape variety in the 18 Viticulture for Winemakers 
world (Robinson 1986), but its wines have no 
exceptional reputation. Among the top 20 of 
the most widely planted grape varieties 
(all vinifera) as shown in Table 2-1, probably 
Rkatsiteli, Trebbiano, Carignane, 
Mission/Criolla/Pais, and several more should 
be primarily in this category. From that listingl , 
the varieties noted for making wines with de­
sirably distinctive flavors include Grenache, 
Cabernet Sauvignon, Muscats as a group, Mer­
lot, Semillon, and Riesling. A modest number 
could be added including famous but lesser 
total area varieties such as Chardonnay, 
Gewiirztraminer, and Pinot noir. Distinctive 
and desirably flavored varieties is the group 
from which further but lesser known varieties 
are sought by winemakers wanting a new fla­
vorful wine to distinguish their listings from 
others in the marketplace. 
Reasons of this latter kind are in the eco­
nomics-sales category. A variety that has prob­
lems, occasionally poor berry count per cluster 
by Merlot for example, may still be a suitable 
choice for marketing reasons. Consideration 
must be given to the existence, accessibility, 
size, and price characteristics of the market 
whether you are a grape grower or a wine­
maker. The specific weighing of factors may 
be quite different for the grower compared to 
the vintner. 
Other special characteristics important to 
selection of which varieties to grow include 
such factors as length of ripening and usual 
harvest date, retention of acidity at harvest, or 
tendency regarding certain processing prob­
lems as wines are made. With modern enology 
most of the processing problems can be over­
come. Some will be the subject of specific 
comments elsewhere in this book. 
From the vintner's viewpoint, and assuming 
the economic and growing conditions are ac-ceptable, the flavor characteristics of the wine 
produced are probably the most crucial factor 
in variety selection. Two additional concepts 
in this regard appear useful for further com­
ment: aroma families and intense versus subtle 
flavors. Many grape varieties may be placed in 
one of a relative few characteristic aroma fami­
lies. A few appear unique and other back­
ground flavor or color factors distinguish the 
individual varieties classifiable into different 
aroma families. The "foxy" family derived 
from Vitis labrusca and epitomized by Concord 
and Niagara is in part due to the unique 
intensity of methyl anthranilate in these grapes. 
The Scuppernong-Muscadine aroma has not 
been chemically pinpointed but is also so 
strong and recognizable that it is easy to dis­
tinguish from V. vinifera varieties. Within the 
pure V. vinifera varieties the most intense and 
easily recognized aroma is that of the Muscat 
group involving monoterpene odorants such 
as geraniol. The pyrazine family has herba­
ceous, bell pepper aromas originating with 
2-methoxy-3-isobutyl pyrazine. These aromas 
are characteristic in the Cabernet family both 
white and red (Sauvignon blanc, Semillon, 
Ruby Cabernet, Cabernet Sauvignon, Caber­
net franc, and others). 
An aroma family characterized as berry-fru­
ity and tending to resemble esters such as 
ethyl caproate is more heterogeneous and 
would include Zinfandel, Californian Petite 
Sirah, and probably Grenache, Shiraz, Chenin 
blanc, plus others not as individually distinc­
tive but still fruity. Grenache can have a rela­
tively unique fruitiness sometimes described as 
raspberry hard candy. 
This concept of aroma families among grape 
varieties needs to be fleshed out with more 
research. Is the spicy character sometimes 
found in wines from Gamay, Merlot, and 
lAny listing such as Table 2-1 is subject to a number of caveats. It depends on world statistical summaries which are of 
variable accuracy and several varieties and clones may be grouped under one name. The more expertise possessed by 
the variety identifier the less willing they are to express unequivocal sameness among selections of a variety grown in 
various countries. Contrary to recent practice, we believe laymen and others are generally best served if the valid varietal 
name current in a given country is accepted, e.g., California's Petite Sirah is not French Syrah or Australian Shiraz, nor 
is it, by recent findings, Durif. A range of different varieties are cultivated in France under the name Sirah. Viticulture fur Winemaker.s 19 
Table 2-1. The top twenty winegrape varieties in the world based on area planted. 
Varietyl 
Ain-;n (W) 
Grenache (R) 
Rkatsiteli (W) 
Trebbiano 2 (W) 
Carignane (R) 
Mission/Criolla/Pais 3 (R) 
CabernetSau~gnon(R) 
Muscat 4 (W) 
Mataro /Monastrel (R) 
Barbera (R) 
Bobal (R) 
Merlot (R) 
Semillon (W) 
Riesling (W) 
Verdicchio (W) 
Walschriesling (W) 
Macabeo (W) 
Malbec (R) 
Xarel-lo (W) 
Grenache blanc (W) Area 
(in thousands of ha) 
476 
331 
267 
262 
221 
145 
135 
122 
113 
102 
95 
90 
75 
66 
65 
64 
58 
43 
43 
41 Spain (00) Countries with the largest plantings 
(percent of global area) 
Spain (72), France (23), United States (2) 
So~et Union (93) 
Italy (49), France (49) 
France (94), United States (4) 
Argentina (72), Chile (27), United States 0) 
Chile (9), France 0 7), So~et Union (6), United States (7) 
Argentina (20), Spain (9), So~et Union (6), United States (9) 
Spain (90) 
Italy (90), United States (7) 
Spain (00) 
France (42), Italy (7), United States (I) 
Chile (47), France (31), United States (3) 
So~et Union (38), Germany (29), United States (8) 
Italy (00) 
Yugosla~a (33), Hungary (30) 
Spain (88) 
Argentina (70), Chile (9) 
Spain (00) 
Spain (61), France (39) 
lLetters in brackets denote color of the variety: W = white, R = red. 
~so called St. Emilion and Ugni blanc. 
3A family of varieties including some white. 
4Includes Muscat Alexandria, M. blanc, etc. 
Source: Adapted from Robinson (1986). Vineyard area, owing to low productivity, overweights some countries. Soviet Union and 
Yugoslavia values do not reflect partition. 
Gewiirztraminer another flavor family? Do the 
black pepper and smoky odors from some 
Syrah/Shiraz wines form another? What are 
the ultimate categories possible in the overall 
genetic capabilities of Vitis? Some of the most 
interesting varieties such as Riesling and 
Gewiirztraminer seem to combine the terpene 
flavors somewhat like Muscats with other fruity 
and spicy characteristics and represent more 
than one aroma family. When Cabernet types 
lack the bell pepper aroma they often are high 
in cassis-cherry odors. The aroma of violets is 
noted in Nebbiolo and sometimes other wines. 
Not to overwork this idea, it appears useful to 
think of these varietal families of grape aromas 
as the top notes of young wines and perhaps 
the "primary colors" useful in exciting new 
blended combinations. 
It has been noted that wines made exclu­
sively from Concord or Scuppernong grapes are usually too intensely flavored. Conversely, 
among distinctively flavored vinifera varieties 
more intensity is usually desired with the possi­
ble exception of the Muscat group and the 
Cabernet (pyrazine) group. Too intense and 
obvious flavors deprive the taster of the plea­
sure of searching out and contemplating sub­
tle variations. Also intense flavors soon over­
whelm the flavors of accompanying food and 
become satiating, cloying, and tiresome. Table 
wine is designed to be consumed as a comple­
ment to food in reasonably sizable, thirst­
quenching amounts. 
Vinifera wines are seldom obvious as to the 
grape variety even when 100% from that vari­
ety and tasted by experienced tasters, espe­
cially if from different vineyard areas. Table 
2-2 (Singleton 1990; Winton et al. 1975) shows 
some examples. Muscat was most distinctive, 
being correctly named after blind tasting in 20 Viticulture Jor Winemakers 
Table 2-2. Sensory panel designation of young wines as an indicator of relative distinctiveness of varietal wine flavor. 
Proportion named (%) 
Chenin Sauvignon Thompson White 
Variety, white Chardonnay blanc Gewiirztraminer Muscat blanc Seedless Riesling 
Chardonnay 20 17 3 0 12 7 9 
Chenin blanc 4 15 2 0 12 6 12 
Gewiirztraminer 12 6 28 0 6 0 15 
Muscat 0 0 0 67 0 8 14 
Sauvignon blanc 12 20 0 0 20 4 7 
Thompson Seedless 4 11 2 0 8 27 14 
White Riesling 7 6 4 8 7 4 38 
Cabernet Ruby Petite Pinot 
Variety, red Sauvignon Cabernet Carignane Sirah noir Zinfandel 
CabernetSauvignon 36 10 0 10 16 9 
Ruby Cabernet 22 21 0 36 6 1 
Carignane 13 0 26 8 15 4 
Petite Sirah 26 0 4 49 0 5 
Pinot noir 20 0 2 4 39 13 
Zinfandel 29 0 3 7 8 40 
Source: Singleton 1990; adapted from Winton, Ough and Singleton 1975. 
two-thirds of the cases when naming any white 
wine was possible. If it was confused, it was 
most often with Riesling. Thompson Seedless 
(Sultanina) made nondescript wines and their 
very lack of specific character made them 
somewhat recognizable. Poorly recognizable 
wines were produced in some instances by 
reputed varieties. Before criticizing either the 
tasting panel or the varieties, note that this 
panel was accustomed to tasting wines from a 
very wide range of varieties (therefore the 
possible choices were large), and the grapes 
came from vineyard areas not all suited to 
making good wines of the type. The results are 
nevertheless illustrative of the points made. 
2. Recommended Varieties 
What variety should be planted in a specific 
new vineyard depends on many factors of biol­
ogy, climatology, and economics. No single 
variety can be recommended universally, nor 
should it be, remembering the value of diver­
sity among wines to maintain consumer inter­
est. Important considerations are the interests 
of the owners and the desire to have some-thing special versus the desire to capitalize on 
an area's reputation with a certain variety. 
The most exemplary early experimental 
study of variety-location suitability for wine of 
which we are aware is that of Amerine and 
Winkler (1944; 1963a, 1963b). A large number 
of varieties were studied by growing them in 
several areas of California. Wines were made 
and evaluated both by chemical composition 
and sensory characteristics, usually for several 
vintages. Further description and recommen­
dations for Californian areas are the subject of 
other reports (Ough et al. 1973; Kasimatis et 
al. 1977, 1980; Kissler et al. 1973). Useful data 
for New Zealand and other cool areas are 
reported by Jackson and Schuster (1987), for 
Australia by Coombe and Dry (I988), for South 
Mrica by Orffer (1979), for Washington by 
Nagel et al. (1972), and for Canada and East­
ern United States by Bowen et al. (1972), 
Crowther and Bradt (1970), and Einsett and 
Kimball (1971). Varietal comparison is a 
never-ending task as new varieties are bred or 
imported and conditions change. For exam­
ple, Ruby Cabernet, when introduced by Dr. Harold P. Olmo, was very unpopular with 
pickers because the tough stems slowed the 
picking rate. With mechanical harvesting, this 
objection became unimportant and berry re­
moval was actually facilitated. 
Most general viticulture references (includ­
ing those cited earlier) include descriptions 
and evaluations of grape varieties for wine­
making. Color and other factors of interest to 
winemakers are mentioned such as early or 
late ripening, suitability for mechanical har­
vesting, and general repute for one or more 
wine types. Owing to interactions with climate, 
marketing, etc., it is very difficult to make 
unequivocal recommendations for varieties. 
The number of varieties that are world-famous 
for distinctive noble wines are relatively few 
and even fewer are suited to a given 
vineyard/winery situation. 
For dry white table wines Chardonnay, 
Sauvignon blanc, Semillon, genuine Riesling, 
and Gewiirztraminer certainly must be men­
tioned. Highly distinctive and especially suited 
for sweet table, sparkling, and fortified white 
wines is Muscat blanc and its cousins. Another 
group less widely reputed for distinctive white 
table wines could include Aligote, Chenin 
blanc, Colombard, Melon, Miiller-Thurgau, 
Pinot blanc, Pinot gris, and Sylvaner. Bland, 
seldom recognizable by wine flavor are such 
varieties as Burger, Sultanina (Thompson 
Seedless), and Trebbiano (Saint Emilion). 
Champagnes are traditionally largely from 
Chardonnay and Pinot noir. Since the process­
ing and not the grape (except for sparkling 
Muscats) gives much of the character, sparkling 
wines from less traditional areas are often from 
blends such as Chenin blanc and Colombard. 
A clean, tart, generally light white base wine is 
desired. For sherries Palomino is traditional, 
but specific varietal flavors are unimportant in 
these wines. Varietal flavors are seldom em­
phasized for white ports, although varieties 
such as Grillo and Verdelho can make attrac­
tively distinctive wines of this class without 
becoming muscatel-like. For all fortified 
dessert wines a well-ripened grape without too 
Iowan acidity is desired. Unless such flavors Viticulture for Winemakers 21 
are desired for the particular type and style 
(perhaps Malaga, Marsala) raisining is to be 
avoided. 
For dry red table wines the world-famous 
distinctive varieties include Cabernet Sauvi­
gnon, Merlot, Gamay, Grenache, Pinot noir, 
and Syrah/Shiraz. Perhaps a lesser and cer­
tainly more locally restricted distinctive tier 
could include Barbera, Grignolino, Nebbiolo, 
Ruby Cabernet, Sangiovese, and Zinfandel. 
Most of these red grapes are or can be suitable 
for rose and faintly pink blush wines also. 
These pink wines are often slightly to moder­
ately sweet, notably the recently popular 
"white" Zinfandel types. Occasionally fully red 
sweet table wines such as late-harvest types 
appear, but they have not developed a sus­
tained following nor a specific varietal pattern. 
Port-type wines, on the other hand, can be 
quite special and distinctive from such vari­
eties as Souzao, Tinta Cao, Tinta Madeira, 
Tinta Roriz, Touriga Franceso, Touriga Na­
cional, and Trousseau. Muscat Hamburg and 
perhaps Aleatico are made into "black" or 
red muscatels. Red and pink sparkling wines, 
except for the late unlamented Cold Duck 
types which usually had a Concord portion, 
have rarely emphasized flavors of specific 
grape varieties. 
Suitability and specific characteristics of in­
dividual grape varieties will draw comments 
under other topics in this and later chapters. 
However, it is informative to consider the total 
(bearing and not yet bearing) plantings in 
California over the last few decades (Table 
2-3). Keep in mind that a newly planted vine­
yard only bears some fruit after three years 
and a full crop after about five years. It should 
be commercially productive for at least 25 
years and can have a much longer life. Obvi­
ously, massive statewide changes will be slow. 
An existing vineyard can be grafted over to 
another variety. This speeds change by only 
losing about 1 * year's crop and by causing a 
drop in hectarage of the old variety equal to 
the rise in that of the new scion variety. 
Several factors have had major influences 
on the wine growers of California since World 22 Viticulture fur Winemakers 
Table 2-3. California grape hectarage by years, classes, and varieties. 
1960 1970 1980 1985 1990 
Total grapes 186,930 193,830 276,810 294,710 280,710 
Raisin varieties 100,300 100,790 110,520 117,830 112,060 
Muscat Alexandria 9,230 5,010 4,310 3,680 2,320 
Thompson Seedless (Sultanina) 89,550 93,050 105,020 112,780 108,160 
Table varieties 35,430 29,300 29,580 37,680 34,530 
Flame Tokay 9,300 8,320 7,370 7,510 5,540 
Concord (+ Niabell, etc.) 110 100 60 70 50 
White wine varieties 9,460 17,460 55,930 79,020 72,660 
Burger 1,200 890 730 930 930 
Chardonnay 1,110 6,890 11,100 21,110 
Chenin blanc 2,140 13,063 16,780 13,340 
Colombard 920 5,520 17,910 29,640 23,830 
Emerald Riesling 320 1,150 1,180 530 
Feher Szagos 370 210 120 50 20 
Gewiirztraminer 260 1,475 1,610 750 
Gray Riesling 330 980 990 200 
Malvasia bianca 150 340 750 860 
Muscat blanc ( + Orange M.) 150 570 670 570 
Palomino (Golden Chasselas) 3,700 2,590 1,520 1,090 600 
Pinotblanc 370 290 780 920 740 
Riesling (White) 650 4,120 4,070 2,020 
Sauvignon blanc 830 550 2,940 6,230 5,440 
Semillon 510 500 1,150 1,230 900 
St. Emilion (Trebbiano) 260 470 470 310 
Sylvaner 530 460 570 500 80 
Other white 2,090 1,070 1,160 810 460 
Red Wine Varieties 41,740 44,470 80,390 59,810 61,030 
Alicante Bouschet 4,150 2,660 2,000 1,300 850 
Barbera 1,340 7,810 6,000 4,320 
Cabernet Franc 60 60 260 660 
CabernetSauvignon 290 2,460 9,230 9,150 13,440 
Carignane 10,100 10,550 10,240 6,610 4,470 
Carnelian 1,110 640 510 
Centurion 420 240 230 
Gamay (Napa) 320 580 1,920 990 620 
Gamay Beaujolais (Pinot noir) 630 1,620 1,020 580 
Grenache 5,020 5,130 7,110 6,350 5,520 
Malvoisie 430 330 210 100 40 
Mataro 1,240 750 380 200 110 
Merlot 110 1,080 1,010 3,010 
Mission 3,700 2,620 1,490 940 470 
Petite Sirah (DuriO 1,900 1,650 4,550 2,070 1,240 
Pinotnoir 280 1,280 3,800 3,160 3,864 
Rubired and Royalty 1,730 5,220 3,740 3,240 
Ruby Cabernet 1,120 6,850 4,280 2,800 
Salvador 890 670 1,040 510 300 
Syrah/Sirah/Shiraz 30 40 140 
Tinta Madeira 230 270 70 20 
Valdepeiias 380 780 760 390 220 
Zinfandel 10,150 8,210 11,800 10,270 13,830 
Other Red 2,870 1,570 1,370 450 610 
Source: Adapted from annual reports by California Crop and Livestock Reporting Service. War II. There has been a shift from about 
80% fortified wine to 80% table wine or more. 
This accounts for much of the decrease in 
plantings of Palomino (sherry), Mission, and 
Tinta Madeira (port). This is not clear from 
Table 2-3, but formerly a considerable part of 
the Thompson Seedless and Flame Tokay went 
to wineries to be used for sherry, white port, 
fortifYing spirits, or brandy. Such use is much 
reduced in recent times. Thompson Seedless 
is now seldom used for wine (although a con­
siderable amount is still crushed for juice and 
concentrate). Thompson Seedless was rapidly 
replaced for wine usage in the 1980s by 
Colombard (which retains acid well in warm 
areas) and Chenin blanc (which generally 
makes more flavorful wine). Barbera (also a 
retainer of acidity in warm areas) followed a 
similar trend and often makes a better red 
table wine from hot vineyards than most other 
varieties. All three of these varieties were evi­
dently considered somewhat overplanted in 
California since they have decreased slightly 
recently. 
The great increase in Chardonnay and 
Cabernet Sauvignon is the result of the in­
creased demand both for premium table wines 
in general and these in particular. Similarly, 
although less in total magnitude, the increases 
of Merlot, Cabernet franc, Pinot noir, and 
Sauvignon blanc may be laid to this cause and 
the fact that, with Chardonnay and Cabernet 
Sauvignon so omnipresent, consumers seek 
additional premium labels. Rhone varieties 
such as Viognier and Syrah are widely pre­
dicted to be the next such fashion. Riesling 
and Gewlirztraminer have gone out of fashion 
with consumers, but are expected to return, 
since fine dry and slightly sweet table wines 
can be made from them. Related, perhaps, is 
the continuing increase of Muscat blanc and 
Malvasia bianca (also muscat flavored in Cali­
fornia). These varieties produce aromatic table 
or sparkling wines in their own right and can 
be useful for blending. Similarly, Muscat 
Alexandria, although listed as a raisin grape, 
often is also used by wineries. With the decline 
in seeded or deseeded raisins and of muscatel, Viticulture for Winemakers 23 
this variety has declined, but not as much as it 
might have without some use in table wine­
making. Concord and its relatives are men­
tioned only to show they are vanishingly small 
in California. 
Most red grapes have anthocyanins only in 
the skins of their berries. Exceptions having 
also red pulp and juice are the dyers (tientu­
riers from French), Alicante Bouschet, Sal­
vador, Rubired, and Royalty. These have some 
nonvinifera (V. rupestris) parentage and make 
wines mainly useful for blending because of 
their high red color. Rubired and Royalty 
(produced by Professor H. P. Olmo of the 
University of California, Davis) were released 
in 1958. They are replacing the other two 
dyers just mentioned. Rubired now has eight­
fold more hectares than Royalty. Other vari­
eties bred, tested, and introduced by Professor 
Olmo include pure viniferas: Emerald Riesling 
and Ruby Cabernet released in 1948, Car­
nelian in 1973, Centurion in 1975, and 
Carmine in 1977. They appear to follow a 
rather typical course with early plantings ex­
ceeding what may become the permanent 
level. There can be several reasons for this 
pattern. Among them, the grapes or wines 
may need special management not initially 
understood, or consumer awareness and de­
mand may not develop as rapidly as hoped. In 
fact, the lag between planting vineyards and 
having wine to market plus the disruptions 
inherent in a large and somewhat volatile in­
dustry has historically led to considerable 
boom-bust fluctuation in general and with in­
dividual varieties or areas in particular. 
Another major trend in the period shown 
in Table 2-3 is the shift of consumer demand 
from red to white table wine. In 1960 the 
hectarage of white wine grapes was less than 
one-fourth of that of the red wine grapes. 
While red wine grape planted area doubled by 
1980, and was still 1 t times as large in 1990 as 
in 1960, white wine grape plantings increased 
eightfold by 1985 and were 1.3 times as large 
as red in that year. 
Owing to good yield and versatility, some 
varieties such as Grenache and Zinfandel have 24 Viticulture far Winemaker.s 
deservedly remained widely planted over the 
whole period. Burger and Mission are exam­
ples of varieties that have decreased but per­
haps not as much as would be expected, con­
sidering their rather ordinary table wines. A 
few of the older varieties, Feher Szagos for 
example, are slow to completely disappear in 
spite of major difficulties (susceptibility to berry 
cracking and rot in this instance) and strong 
recommendations against them (Amerine and 
Winkler 1944). 
Additional factors of great importance, not 
illustrated by total hectarage, include typical 
yield and price. To illustrate how large these 
factors can be, Burger averaged nearly 30 met­
ric tons/hectare in California in 1990, whereas 
Pinot noir averaged about 7 Tm/ha. In the 
highest premium wine area, growers received, 
in 1992, about $41O/Tm for Burger, $985/Tm 
for Pinot noir, $1805/Tm for Cabernet Sauvi­
gnon, and $1580/Tm for Chardonnay. Grow­
ing area makes a great difference as well. 
Chen in blanc from the highest premium 
county brought $525/Tm and from the lowest 
priced area $21O/Tm in California in 1992. 
Similar statistical data may be derived from 
other states and countries. Each would likely 
show considerable differences with special va­
rieties and different climatic and economic 
conditions. Conservative owners of small vine­
yards are well advised to plant the varieties 
which the wineries of their area want to buy, 
keeping an eye on prospects for change and 
probable dollars per hectare. 
D. EFFECTS OF VINEYARD LOCATION 
1. General 
Climate is inextricably tied to the location of 
the vineyard as is, of course, the topography 
and physicochemical nature of the soil. Before 
considering these in more detail, a few gen­
eral comments are in order. The effects of 
weather as it relates to vintage differences and 
of climate as it relates to regional differences 
can be great. Although we will consider the typical effects on grapes in general, interac­
tion with variety can be great. For example, 
Ruby Cabernet often yields a higher-quality 
wine than Cabernet Sauvignon in hot areas of 
central California. The reverse is usual in 
cooler coastal areas. 
It is useful to consider climate at four levels 
from global to local. Commercial winegrowing 
is largely confined to the North and South 
temperate regions of the earth. Although spe­
cial techniques can extend the limits, lack of 
dormancy and problems with disease restrict 
viticulture on the equatorial sides and so does 
cold on the polar sides of these belts. Eliminat­
ing deserts, marshes, higher altitudes, too­
rocky areas, and prevailing conditions unsuit­
able for viticulture leaves large areas possibly 
available for viticulture. Study of climatic vari­
ables can help decide where to locate a new 
vineyard, for example, in one state versus an­
other. 
Regional climate, that of the district, county, 
or section of the state will help delineate the 
best vineyard areas from a more local perspec­
tive. Next the mesoclimate must be consid­
ered. This refers to the particular vineyard 
relative to its neighbors or even sections of the 
same vineyard. For example, a vineyard up a 
slope may be less subject to spring frosts than 
the one at the bottom of the valley, since cold 
air is more dense and can slide down the 
slope. Air drainage, wind exposure, and sun 
aspect are important parts of meso climate. Mi­
croclimate, as presently defined, means the 
immediate environmental influences (airflow, 
sunlight, humidity, etc.) around and within the 
canopies of particular vines. 
Microclimates are most easily modified by 
vineyard management. Mesoclimate is largely 
a result of vineyard site selection influenced 
sometimes by layout (east-west versus north­
south rows, for example). Climate on a larger 
scale is largely beyond control once a vineyard 
site is selected, but the incidence, timing, and 
severity of storms remains a concern. Conti­
nental climates have wider variations and an­
nual vintages differ more than in coastal cli­
mates or others moderated at least in temper-ature by the nearness of a large body of water. 
Often the best guide to new vineyard siting is 
the existence and reputation of nearby vine­
yards and the interest of winemakers in your 
prospective crop. If more grapes of a certain 
type are needed, winemakers will encourage 
plantings; however, excess supply or lower 
quality will certainly lower prices. 
2. Land for Vineyards 
Famous, high-quality wines often come from 
vineyards with relatively low fertility. In fact, 
owing to such factors as excessively vigorous 
vine growth as opposed to fruit production, 
highly fertile soils are considered undesirable 
for wine vineyards. The healthy grapevine is a 
good feeder with its deep, perennial root sys­
tem which becomes relatively large compared 
to the severely pruned aboveground vine. 
European vintners have tended to empha­
size the importance of the specific vineyard 
location and ascribe the major effects to the 
soil itself. New World specialists have tended 
to emphasize climatic effects and consider the 
soil per se relatively unimportant. Extreme 
emphasis on the one and denigration of the 
other is probably wrong in both cases. How­
ever, the almost mystical attribution of unique 
greatness to a particular patch of soil for grow­
ing grapes is certainly untenable. It stems in 
part from efforts, conscious or not, to cripple 
competition. An advantage is gained if the 
consumer can be convinced that no one could 
possibly make an equally good wine without 
owning a particular piece of real estate. By 
detailed analysis of a wide range of soil-derived 
mineral elements, it can be possible to distin­
guish wines from one area from those from 
another, especially if rootstock and variety are 
the same. There is no evidence that a specific 
constellation of unessential trace minerals has 
bearing on wine quality. Seguin (1986) found 
that the great Bordeaux vineyards differed 
from poorer ones mainly in their ability to 
moderate the effects of extreme vintage con­
ditions such as long drought or heavy rainfall, Viticulture for Winemakers 25 
and still produce a relatively constant level of 
alcohol and acid in the wines. 
The chemical composition of the soil is 
important, but generally it is either not limit­
ing or correctable. There are a number of 
potential deficiencies, excesses, and imbal­
ances in the minerals of the soil and irrigation 
water from the viticultural viewpoint. For ex­
ample, boron can be deficient, normal, or 
present at toxic levels in the soil or irrigation 
water. Winemakers should be alert for such 
problems and work with growers to avoid or 
solve them, but usually the details require the 
attention of viticultural specialists. 
Two exceptions which may cause trouble 
with winemaking before the grower is aware of 
vineyard problems are musts with low nitrogen 
and those with excessive potassium. Lack of 
enough usable nitrogen for complete yeast 
fermentation leads to stuck fermentations. The 
problem is often alleviated by adding ammo­
nium phosphate to the must rather than by 
improving nitrogen fertility in the vineyard. 
Since nitrogen fertilization seldom pays off in 
increased grape yield unless the vineyard is 
appreciably depleted, not enough usable ni­
trogen for the yeasts tends to show up in musts 
from older, nutrient-depleted, unfertilized 
vineyards, which otherwise may be well man­
aged. The problem can be more severe with 
some varieties than with others. For example, 
varieties high in proline can appear adequate 
from analyses for total nitrogen but not be so 
because proline nitrogen is not used by yeasts 
during wine fermentation. Excessive nitrogen 
fertilization causes other problems related to 
excessive vine vigor and excessive must argi­
nine. High arginine can lead to increased ethyl 
carbamate in wines. 
The second problem, excess must potas­
sium, can result in wines too high in pH 
although high in titratable acid. This problem 
tends to surface in areas planted with grapes 
for the first time. Since appreciable potassium 
is removed with the harvested crop, it de­
creases with time and the problem corrects 
itself. 26 Viticulture for Winemakers 
Soil factors, besides chemical composition, 
are of more widespread impact on grape 
growing. Mostly these relate to water supply 
for the vine. Shallow soils overlying impenetra­
ble hardpan tend to waterlog owing to poor 
drainage or dry out too easily because of low 
capacity. Soil depth of at least 1.5 m is desired. 
If the impenetrable layer can be broken up by 
subsoil ripping so that roots and water may 
penetrate the hardpan layer, the land may be 
made useful, but the procedures are costly. If 
the shallow soil is over impermeable rock 
without usable subsoil, little can be done. Soils 
good for vineyards should be well drained 
without a high or fluctuating water table. Un­
less dormant, grapes do not tolerate "wet feet" 
and roots soon die without oxygen in water­
logged soil. Sand, gravel, or even coarse rocky 
material with little visible soil are well drained 
down to the water table and are often good 
for vineyards. Poor water retention by such 
soils may require frequent irrigation. In con­
trast, heavy, high-sodium clay soils which have 
a high water capacity, but swell when wet and 
obstruct further water penetration are a prob­
lem for vineyards. Some clay soils may be too 
dense for root penetration. But, within rather 
extreme limits, excellent vineyards exist on 
soils with a wide range of properties and par­
ent materials. 
The best soils for growing grapes for pre­
mium wines should, then, be well drained, 
reasonably deep, but not overly fertile. Some 
organic matter for tilth, friability, and penetra­
bility is generally desirable. Provided that 
good-quality water (low content of undesirable 
salts, especially boron and sodium) is available, 
irrigation can be very useful, if vineyard layout 
and costs allow and soil infiltration and 
drainage are good. 
It is not clear from these comments that 
growing grapes in large vineyards under ap­
parently optimum conditions on uniform, al­
luvial, deep, well-drained soils does not usually 
lead to the most esteemed premium wines. 
There are a number of reasons for this. To 
some extent snobbishness and economics play 
a role. Large well-managed vineyards in areas propitious for grapes produce relatively high 
yields and large volumes of wine. Plentiful 
products seldom command premium prices. If 
costs of grape production and crop failures 
are relatively low, winegrowers are willing to 
compete by lowering prices. With lower prices, 
income can be maintained only by raising 
yield or eliminating some costs. Mass­
processing and mass-marketing tend to lead to 
fault-free, more uniform, but sometimes less 
exciting wines. 
Dividing up a large relatively uniform area 
into small vineyards, each managed by differ­
ent growers, and the grapes processed by dif­
ferent winemakers, could increase the diver­
sity among wines and interest in them at the 
expense of economics of scale. Owing to a few 
inept, small producers, some wines would be 
bad. This tended to be the situation some 
years ago in countries where a large amount 
of inexpensive wines were produced and con­
sumed. Modernization has led to consolida­
tion of growers and wineries in such condi­
tions. 
Contrarily, if the vineyards are small for 
reasons such as hilly terrain with suitable sites 
interspersed by unsuitable ones, costs tend to 
remain higher and wines more variable, re­
gardless of expert technology. Increased qual­
ity, interest, and diversity can be produced 
because the grapes are not all the same. The 
winemaker can produce better wines by blend­
ing products from several different vineyards 
or, if one vineyard does exceptionally well, 
making its grapes into an extra premium bot­
tling. A large producer tends to find a small 
amount of exceptional wine a nuisance to 
keep separate and incorporates it into the 
general product to raise the average quality. If 
it changes the average characteristics too much 
it disorients consumers expecting uniformity 
and it may be sold to a smaller winery that can 
make use of its special nature. The producer 
of premium wine, however, need not be small 
in total, but needs to keep more lots separate. 
By vineyard selection and delayed blending, a 
diverse range of premium-priced products can 
be produced. The two extremes of plen tiful and inexpensive wines versus rarer premium­
priced ones are not at odds but rather can be 
helpful to each other. As viticulture and enol­
ogy improves, the average quality of standard 
wines has improved greatly, but the zenith and 
frequency of exciting premium wines has risen 
also. A wine-producing country needs for 
long-term health both good standard and ex­
ceptional premium wines as well as interested 
clientele that enjoy them both. 
3. The Growing Season and 
Environmental Conditions 
Grapevines normally are deciduous, dropping 
their leaves to go dormant in the winter. Their 
fruiting in the following season is much more 
tolerant of the lack of a dormant period than 
that of temperate fruit trees such as peaches. 
In subtropical and tropical areas with insuffi­
cient winter cold to induce dormancy in 
grapes, withholding of water, severe pruning, 
and/ or leaf removal can synchronize and 
stimulate budbreak for the next crop. Other­
wise fruiting remains sporadic and limited in 
tropical areas. The buds containing the pri­
mordial new clusters are formed the year be­
fore they produce their crop. During the time 
the current crop is growing, fruiting buds 
for the following year's crop are also being 
developed. 
Starting with a mature, leafless, dormant 
vine, the buds for this year's crop sprout in 
early spring already bearing cluster primordia 
generated the previous summer. Several more 
or less obvious stages follow: budburst (the 
first visible green of the new shoot), full bloom 
(more than 50% of flower caps detached), 
berry set (stamens falling and enlargement 
beginning), onset of ripening (veraison), 
berries ripe (commercial harvest), cane matu­
ration, leaf fall, and renewed dormancy. Prob­
ably the best brief recent summary of these 
changes is by Coombe (1988). Figure 2-1 
adapted from his article illustrates this sea­
sonal cycle. 
Budburst in 11 varieties over a five-year 
period varied in date from one to six weeks Viticulture fur Winemakers 27 
with a two-week difference being most com­
mon. Varieties bursting early are thought to 
be those with a low temperature threshold. 
Both a warming trend prolonged for a few 
weeks as winter departs and higher daily max­
ima in the later days precede budburst. The 
most statistical variance in date of budbreak 
was accounted for among several districts and 
varieties by mean temperatures after February 
1 (August 1 in the Southern Hemisphere) and, 
to a lesser extent, maximum temperatures 
during the last 10 days. Since budburst is ap­
parently controlled by spring warming, dif­
ferent grape varieties are relatively similar. 
Budburst tends to occur in mid-to-Iate March 
(mid-to-Iate September in the Southern Hemi­
sphere). It is obviously desirable, but not al­
ways the case, that buds do not begin to open 
before frost danger is past. That budbreak 
requires both a fairly prolonged warming trend 
and, in the later stages, increased temperature 
maxima indicates nature's adaptation to avoid 
frost risk and await true spring. 
Flowering is even more heavily influenced 
by weather than is budburst. It is relatively 
uniform among varieties within a region, al­
though it varies among regions and years. This 
is attributed to the unifying effect of the onset 
of spring heat in each region each year. Flow­
ering occurs as mean daily temperature (mean 
of maximum and minimum) reaches about 
18°C. Flowering is usually six to nine weeks 
(about eight average) after budburst. The 
flowers of a single cluster ordinarily open in 
one to three days, but over the whole vine a 
week or more may be required. Warmer tem­
peratures increase the rate of flowering, but 
high temperatures, 35°C or more, retard with­
out preventing eventual flowering. Averaged 
maximum daily temperature, particularly in 
the period after March 1 (September 1 in the 
Southern Hemisphere) accounted for more of 
the variation in flowering date than did the 
mean, the minimum, or the range in tempera­
ture. The flowering date varied only about one 
week among varieties in anyone district and 
season, but as much as six weeks between 
districts (Coombe 1988). 28 Viticulture for Winemakers 
N. HEM. 
S.HEM. FLOWERING 
\ HARVEST 
/ 
LEAF DROP 
/ 
Fig. 2-1. Approximate schem e of annual accumulation and loss of fresh weight of a mature grape vine. Adapted from 
Coombe (1988). 
Fruit set is the result of successful pollina­
tion. Although insects and wind may have some 
small role, direct self-pollination appears the 
rule with modern varieties (Winkler et al. 
1974) . Actual events following pollination de­
pend on varietal characteristics such as seed­
lessness, but need not concern us. If an indi­
vidual flower is not properly pollinated it usu­
ally drops away in a week or so. If it persists or 
if nutritional deficiencies (particularly zinc or 
boron) prevail, it may remain to become a 
small, seedless "shot" berry that ripens dif­
ferently. Some ripen early and some stay hard and green. The latter are useless to the wine­
maker. The percentage of potential berries 
that actually set and develop normally is obvi-
0usly important. Only about one-fifth to one­
half of the flower count appears as berries per 
ripe cluster. Set is considerably influenced by 
the grape variety involved. Poorer set than 
normal for the variety or berry drop may be 
associated with high temperature, especially 
night temperatures of 33°C or so (Winkler et 
al. 1974). Water stress, high winds, and cold 
cloudy conditions also reduce fruit set and 
retention (ChampagnoI1984). The length of the period between flowering 
and harvesting of ripe grapes varies consider­
ably among varieties. It may be from 70 to 170 
days (Coombe 1988), but 125 days may be 
considered typical for commercially important 
wine varieties in typical areas. Nevertheless the 
weather, particularly the temperature, consid­
erably affects the harvest date for ripe grapes 
(warmer = earlier) of either a given variety or 
a group of varieties. As a rule, different vari­
eties tend to maintain their relative progres­
sion compared to each other as weather varies 
from place to place and year to year, but the 
actual dates of veraison and harvest can vary 
considerably. However, varieties do respond to 
environmental regimes somewhat differently, 
so the relative order of ripening may be re­
versed in different districts. For examples, in 
one Australian district Chardonnay and Pinot 
noir were ripe for harvest on, February 10 and 
13 (August 10 and 13, Northern Hemisphere), 
respectively, with a standard error of only two 
to three days over seven to ten years (Coombe 
1988). Riesling ripened earlier than Shiraz in 
warm regions but in reverse order in cool 
regions. 
Leaf fall and entrance into dormancy, like 
flowering, is more set by the general environ­
ment as winter arrives and varieties again be­
have more uniformly. The vine stores more 
reserves for the next season between harvest 
and leaf fall. The canes and their buds mature 
and "harden" so they can better withstand 
winter cold. 
Depending on timing and severity, storms 
and unseasonal episodes can have great ef­
fects. Late spring frosts decrease this year's 
crop because the fruit-bearing structures are 
present on the shoots as they emerge. Early 
fall freezes while the vine is still green kill 
leaves and immature canes, decrease reserves, 
and weaken the vines. High-humidity weather 
during the growing season promotes fungal 
diseases. Wind can break shoots and scar 
berries. Rain on nearly ripe berries can cause 
splitting, as can improperly managed irriga­
tion. Hail at any time outside dormancy can Viticulture for Winemakers 29 
be devastating. Unusually prolonged or severe 
cold below about -18°C can kill dormant 
vinifera grapevines. Cold tolerance varies 
greatly by variety, level of hardening, and vine­
yard conditions. Viticulture is not recom­
mended if the mean temperature of the cold­
est month is below _1°C or a freeze of -20°C 
occurs more than once per 20 years (Jackson 
and Cherry 1988). This enforces polar limits 
for commercial growing of vinifera and is af­
fected by altitude above sea level as well as 
maritime proximity. Viticulture with V. vinifera 
is most successful in areas with moderate tem­
perate climates and predictably uniform sea­
sonal progression as free as possible from se­
vere and untimely storms. 
Although temperature is the major and most 
easily measured factor influencing grapevine 
seasonal development, other factors can be 
important, such as length of growing season, 
sunlight, daylength, and water flux. Slight wa­
ter stress can hasten fruit development. The 
lower the stress the longer the cycle in a given 
variety from budburst to harvest. Plentiful wa­
ter throughout the season is generally detri­
mental to wine quality and increases the risk 
of fall frost damage by keeping the vine green. 
Daylength and radiation intensity are impor­
tant and, of course, interact with temperature. 
High light favors high cluster numbers per 
vine, high content of anthocyanins and other 
skin phenols relative to a given sugar content, 
and decreased shoot elongation. Direct sun 
combined with temperatures above about 40°C 
leads to sunburn of exposed berries. If this 
happens early in the summer, the affected 
berries remain small and hard; yield is de­
creased but wine quality should not be low­
ered. Late in the season the berries are al­
ready developed and vineyard yield may not 
be much affected, but wine quality will be 
lowered if appreciable sunburn or scald oc­
curs. In addition to possible sunburn, exces­
sively high temperatures can close stomates 
and inhibit photosynthesis. Other effects re­
lated to ripening will be covered later in this 
chapter. 30 Viticulture for Winemakers 
4. Classification of Regions and 
Heat Summation 
The temperature is so important to grape de­
velopment that it can be used to predict sea­
sonal and regional differences in grape char­
acteristics. Additional factors such as hours of 
cloudless sun are related to temperature. In 
the absence of more complete data, tempera­
ture can be useful as a catchall indicator. For 
example, cloudy weather ordinarily lowers 
temperature, may raise humidity and certainly 
lowers insolation. Other influences should not 
be ignored, however, as improved understand­
ing is sought about location-weather effects on 
wine grapes in specific areas. 
Amerine and Winkler (l944; 1963a, 1963b) 
divided California into Climatic Regions I 
through V based upon degree-days above lOoC 
summed between April 1 and November 1 
(October 1 to May 1, Southern Hemisphere). 
The temperature of 10°C was chosen as that 
below which grapes are too cold to be signifi­
cantly active. The typical seasonal degree-day 
heat summations are calculated from climatic 
records in the particular area preferably cov­
ering at least 10 years. Ordinarily the mean 
daily temperature is calculated from the maxi­
mum and minimum for each day. For exam­
ple, a five-day period with the daily maximum 
of 30°C and a minimum of 15°C would con­
tribute[(30 + 15) --;-2] -10 = 12.5°C for each 
day or a total of 62.5°C degree-days or heat 
summation units (HSU) toward the seasonal 
total. These Climatic or Heat Summation Re­
gions are designated as follows: I-below 1390, 
cool; 11-1391 to 1670, moderately cool; 
III-1671 to 1940, moderately warm; IV-1941 
to 2220, warm; V-2221 or more, hot. These 
numbers are actually conversions from 50°F 
base HSU of Region I less than 2500, II = 2501 
to 3000, III = 3001 to 3500, IV = 3501 to 4000, 
V = greater than 4000. 
It is easily seen that these Climatic Region 
designations are only a rough approximation 
and may not extrapolate well outside Califor­
nia. For example, hot vineyards are usually 
well irrigated in California, but may not be 
elsewhere. These Climatic Regions are more useful the more uniform the weather year to 
year. The growing season heat summation cal­
culated this way may be the same, yet the 
effects on grapevines quite different for an 
area (or year) that has a short hot season 
compared to another that has a longer cooler 
one. The lOoC minimum temperature may not 
be the best base for all comparisons. An inte­
grated value of hours of warmth per day should 
be better than the simple maximum tempera­
ture for that day (or worse yet, longer periods) 
in measuring effects on grapevine physiology. 
No allowance is made for excessive heat. This 
subject is long overdue for further intensive 
study. 
Nevertheless, these Climatic Regions have 
been very useful in California for generally 
characterizing existing and potential new vine­
yards and recommending varieties for them. 
Table 2-4 gives some instructive examples 
(Amerine and Winkler 1963b). Regions I and 
II are recommended for table wines, IV and V 
for dessert wines. Region V is not recom­
mended for table wine varieties, but if you 
must make table wines in Regions IV and V, 
Colombard and Emerald Riesling may be use­
ful for white and Barbera or Ruby Cabernet 
for red. This is partly because they retain their 
acid relatively well in hot weather. Note that 
early-ripening varieties are particularly to be 
avoided for hot vineyards unless they retain 
acid well. Late varieties may ripen in hot vine­
yards after fall cooling begins. Slowly ripening 
varieties may not necessarily be excluded from 
the coolest regions of California, but sufficient 
total heat summation to produce acceptable 
ripeness is required. Slow ripening during 
prolonged, cool autumns often is favorable to 
wine quality. The coolest commercially suc­
cessful vineyards in France and Germany, 
about 940 HSU or degree-days, use only rela­
tively early varieties. On the hot end of this 
scale, temperate zone areas above about 2500 
HSU (lO°C basis) have extra problems of sun­
burning, raisining, acid loss, etc., and are not 
recommended for wine grapes. They may be 
suitable for early table grapes. 
A number of studies have compared other 
techniques to improve upon the Region I to V Viticulture fur Winemakers 31 
Table 2-4. Grape varieties for white, red or pink table, and dessert wines with recommended regions for their 
production. (E = early; M = mid-5eason; L = late; N = neutral; S = slightly distinctive; D = distinctive; 
HR = highly recommended; R = recommended; Q = qualified recommendation; 
blank = not recommended; (w) = white.) 
Region 
Variety Production 
(metric tons/hectare) Ripens Flavor II III IV V 
WlDTE TABLE WINES 
Chardonnay 
Chenin blanc 
Colombard 
Emerald Riesling 
Gewiirztraminer 
Muscat blanc 
Pinotblanc 
Sauvignon blanc 
Semillon 
Sylvaner 
White Riesling 9-13 
13-22 
13-22 
13-26 
9-13 
9-13 
9-13 
9-15 
9-13 
9-13 
9-13 E 
M­
E+ 
M­
E 
E 
M­
M 
M 
E 
M-D 
N+ 
D­
D­
D 
D 
D­
D 
D-
S 
D-HR 
R 
Q 
R 
Q 
R 
HR 
Q 
Q 
HR R 
Q 
Q 
Q 
R 
Q 
R 
R 
R 
R Q 
R 
Q 
R 
Q 
R 
R 
Q R 
R 
Q Q 
Q 
RED AND PINK TABLE WINES 
Barbera 
CabernetSauvignon 
Carignane 
Gamay (Napa) 
Grenache 
Petite Sirah (DuriO 
Pinot noir 
Ruby Cabernet 
Zinfandel II-IS 
9-13 
IS-26 
13-20 
13 ± 
9-1S 
7-9 
13-1S 
9-13 E 
L 
L 
L M M 
E 
M 
M S 
D 
S 
N+ 
N+ 
S 
D 
D 
D HR 
Q 
Q 
Q 
R 
R Q 
R 
Q 
Q 
R 
R 
Q 
Q Q R 
Q 
R 
Q 
Q 
R 
Q R Q 
Q Q 
R Q 
DESSERT WINE 
Carignane 
Grenache 
Grillo (w) 
Malvasia bianca (w) 
Mission (pink) 
Muscat of Alexandria(w) 
Orange Muscat (w) 
Palomino (w) 
Rubired 
Souzao 
Tinta Madeira 
Verdelho (w) 
Source: Amerine and Winkler (l963b). IS-26 
13-26 
13-22 
9-15 
13-26 
9-22 
9-20 
13-22 
13-20 
9-1S 
9-1S 
9-13 L 
M 
M­
M 
L 
L 
M 
L 
M 
M 
M­
M-
system. Data were tabulated from one warm 
vineyard over 114 varieties for seven years 
(McIntyre et al. 1982). Cumulative maximum 
daily air temperature was the best prediction 
of the days from budbreak to bloom. Cumula­
tive daily air temperature range (maximum 
minus minimum) was the best prediction of 
the bloom to maturity time, and cumulative S-
S­
N 
D 
N 
D 
D 
N 
S 
S 
D­
N+ Q R 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q 
Q R 
R 
R 
R 
Q 
Q 
R 
Q 
Q 
R 
R 
R R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
R 
HR 
HR HR 
sunlight irradiation was best for timing of days 
from budbreak to maturity. Jackson and 
Cherry (1988) (see also Coombe and Dry 
(1988), Jackson and Schuster (1987» reviewed 
the literature and compared 14 different mea­
sures including degree-days calculated from 
different base temperatures. Daily degree-day 
summations gave better correlations than 32 Viticulture for Winemaker.s 
monthly with an area's ability to ripen a cer­
tain variety of grapes. Base temperature of 
10°C distinguished among areas growing cool­
climate grape varieties but lower base temper­
atures were better for warmer areas. A num­
ber of the indices were either inadequate or 
unnecessarily complicated. Degree-days (base 
lOOC) were improved and then separated more 
clearly which groups of varieties were more 
suitable for an area if they were modified by 
latitude (Northern or Southern) according to 
the formula DD (60 -latitude)/lO = LDD. 
The LDD (latitude-modified degree-days) was 
little or no improvement and more cumber­
some than LTI (latitude temperature index) 
calculated from the mean temperature of the 
warmest month times (60 -latitude) in pre­
dicting a district's grape-ripening capacity and 
suitability for different varieties. 
Such calculations are of most help in grasp­
ing the typical relationships among widely 
scattered vineyards and the varieties to be 
grown. Clearly, more complicated formulas 
taking into account further factors such as 
altitude and maritime versus continental varia­
tions could be developed. In siting most new 
vineyards, and particularly one within a rea­
sonable distance from a given winery, latitude 
will not vary much and mesoclimate factors 
become more important. They are less subject 
to calculation, but can be estimated reasonably 
well by considering the factors indicated and 
comparing existing vineyards in the vicinity. In 
certain areas of Europe, the Chasselas variety 
has been used as a reference against which 
other varieties are compared and upon which 
regional differences are based. Similar com­
parisons using other varieties more appropri­
ate depending on the country are certainly 
helpful. 
E. VINEYARD MANAGEMENT 
1. General 
Vineyard management is still important after 
the site is chosen and planted with a given rootstock/scion varietal combination. Of 
course, distances between vines interact with 
farming practices and a myriad of details can 
be important from the training and trellising 
system through fertilization, irrigation, pest 
control, cultivation, and pruning. Again, full 
details cannot be given here and viticultural 
references should be consulted for additional 
information. A few aspects, however, seem im­
portant to orient prospective winemakers. 
2. Overcropping 
The dormant vine habitually is pruned to re­
move canes past production, those poorly 
placed, and a good portion of next year's 
potential producers. The manner of pruning 
can range from meticulous hand-pruning ad­
justed for each vine according to its age and 
size to mass hedging and pruning completely 
by machine. The latter, of course, is much 
faster and less labor-intensive. There are advo­
cates for both extremes and intermediate 
combinations in various situations. A m~or 
purpose of such pruning is to help control the 
size of next year's crop. Pruning down to four 
two-bud spurs per vine might be normal to 
low; 18 four-bud spurs per vine have been 
seen after pruning in foreign vineyards noted 
for overcropping. In a very few varieties (mostly 
raisin or table grapes) the basal buds are not 
fruitful and longer canes must be left. 
If too many fruitful buds are left, the vine's 
photosynthetic capacity will be inadequate to 
ripen all the clusters. This situation is termed 
overcropping. If vines are overcropped, the 
berries fail to develop normal sugar content by 
normal harvest dates. Harvest is either signifi­
cantly delayed, compared to adjacent normally 
cropped vineyards of the same variety, or the 
grapes never reach desired sugar levels. Since 
sugar is the direct product of photosynthesis 
by the leaves and ripe grapes contain about 
200 g/kg, low sugar is the primary signal for 
overcropping. Other components are affected 
as well, however, and genuinely overcropped 
vines produce poor wine not only because the 
alcohol will be low. Delayed harvest in hot weather leads to flat wines with inadequate 
acidity. In cool weather retained acid may be 
adequate, but the wine remains unbalanced. 
Grape aroma and other constituents appear­
ing late in ripening are likely to be deficient. 
Theoretically it should be simple to deter­
mine and specify the square centimeters of 
leaf surface necessary to mature one berry and 
extrapolate that to larger scale. Although stud­
ies to that end have been informative, a num­
ber of practical problems complicate the pic­
ture. Young leaves can be net consumers of 
photosynthate, not exporters. Position of a leaf 
relative to its nearest cluster is a factor. Expo­
sure to sunlight is very important. Freeing 
vines from viruses and other deleterious fac­
tors, improving canopy and fruit exposure to 
sunlight via better trellises, and control of vine 
vigor have all contributed to raising the size of 
crop that can be matured to give excellent 
wine. Yields per hectare, especially in the best 
vineyards, have risen in recent decades con­
comitant with increased average quality of 
table wines produced. 
When true overcropping exists, decreased 
wine quality results, but it does not follow that 
lowering the crop below some optimum level 
further increases quality, although this is 
sometimes assumed. Agreement and research 
conclusions upon this point are rather equivo­
cal, but no one, grower, winemaker, or con­
sumer, is well served if crop yield is lowered 
more than absolutely necessary for high-qual­
ity wine (Singleton 1990). It is clear that high­
quality wine can be made from relatively high 
yielding vineyards (allowing for variety, soil, 
and weather conditions) if that crop is pro­
duced on vines which are healthy and appro­
priately managed. Winemakers should moni­
tor development and ripening and be alert for 
early indications that optimum cropping is 
being exceeded. They should also be wary of 
trying to lower yield below the level giving 
high-quality wine. Unfortunately, the maxi­
mum yield for fully acceptable quality is not a 
constant, nor perhaps an entirely definable 
point. Viticulture for Winemakers 33 
Overcropping occurs at widely different 
Tm/ha depending upon variety, weather, area, 
and traditional practices (vines/ha, trellis and 
training form, etc.). It is therefore not possible 
to specify yields beyond which overcropping 
will be the case. Penning-Rowsell (I985) de­
scribes the minimum alcohol content and 
maximum crops permitted for various Bor­
deaux appellations controlies. There is a basic 
maximum but it may be raised in "exceptional 
years when quality and quantity coincide." All 
those Bordeaux subregions producing dry 
table wines, white or red, had a basic permit­
ted maximum wine yield up to 1983 of 4.0 to 
5.0 kL/ha with a minimum alcohol 10 to 13% 
depending on subregion. In 1983, a large vin­
tage, the annual permitted maxima were all 
above the basic level, mostly 5.8 to 6.0 kL/ha. 
In 1983 the permitted basic maximum was 
raised substantially, typically 1.5 kL/ha for dry 
white wines and 0.5 kL/ha for reds. The basic 
maximum in the Haut Medoc, one of the most 
prestigious red wine areas, was 4.3 kL/ha be­
fore 1983 and 4.8 kL/ha in 1983 and after. 
These figures translate to about 5.8 and 6.5 
Tm/ha for Cabernet Sauvignon and related 
red varieties under Bordeaux conditions. Simi­
lar calculations from Bordeaux indicate basic 
permitted maxima from 1983 for appellation 
controlie Sauvignon blanc or Semillon of about 
8.8 Tm/ha. 
Crop levels can be regulated by means other 
than cane pruning. Spurs or canes can be 
pruned long and then a portion of the clusters 
may be removed after berry set and early 
development is past. Clipping off whole clus­
ters (cluster thinning) or parts of clusters (berry 
thinning) are, of course, labor-costly opera­
tions and subject to some of the same uncer­
tainties as cane pruning. Clearly it must be 
done as early as possible to minimize overload­
ing stress on the vine. Special management 
such as early water stress may keep berry size 
small and thus lower crop size. This is very 
difficult to accomplish except on shallow or 
fast-draining sandy soils in hot areas. At least 
for red wines, smaller berries give redder and 
generally better wines (Singleton 1972). 34 Viticulture fur Winemaker.s 
3. Vigor Level 
That a robust vine apparently bursting with 
healthy shoot growth is not desirable for the 
production of wine grapes is not intuitively 
obvious. High vegetative growth is counterpro­
ductive to desirable fruit production. Exces­
sively fertile soils, excessive fertilization espe­
cially with nitrogen fertilizers, strong-feeding 
and vigor-promoting rootstocks, and the par­
ticular scion variety all can contribute to ex­
cessive vine vigor. Excessive vigor results in 
decreased yield and decreased wine quality. 
This is one reason to be skeptical that the 
minimum crop gives the best wine as crop 
load is reduced. 
Excessive vigor has become more obvious a 
problem as viruses and other pests and dis­
eases are eliminated or successfully controlled. 
Excess vigor is, for this reason and others, 
more often a problem in newer viticultural 
areas with modern farming than in old, de­
pleted, and traditionally managed vineyards. 
Devigorating rootstocks are being sought and 
other techniques such as topping or green 
pruning are being used or developed to cope 
with excessive vigor in specific situations. Con­
trol of water and nitrogen can help avoid the 
problem, and the trellising arrangement is an 
important factor. 
4. Canopy Management 
Interacting with both overcropping and vigor 
management is the arrangement of the leaf 
canopy of the vines. The training of the vines 
and the trellising system upon which they are 
trained can be very important in two major 
regards: the leaves' exposure to sunlight and 
the fruits' exposure to light and air. Leaves, as 
far as possible, should each be directly ex­
posed to the sun and not shaded by each 
other or other vine or trellis parts. New shoot 
production as the crop is maturing is undesir­
able. The concept is fairly obvious as light 
enables photosynthetic production of sugar, 
but its full implementation in commercial 
vineyards is not. Various systems of training 
and trellising have been developed and im-provements are still being made. Training each 
vine up a stake and heading it at the top has 
been largely replaced by training cordon arms 
along support wires. The number and ar­
rangement of further foliage wires has fol­
lowed many patterns having common objec­
tives of displaying the leaves and fruit as opti­
mally as possible in a given situation. 
It is important for the fruit to be exposed to 
light and air. Direct overhead sunlight is not 
desirable because it risks sunburning, but fruit 
buried within the canopy often fails to develop 
properly, particularly with regard to color. Full 
fruit exposure by positioning of clusters and 
basal leaf removal increases the sugar near 
maturity by nearly 1 Brix (Kliewer and Smart 
1988). The acidity may also be reduced pro­
portionally to the additional ripening. Antho­
cyanin may be doubled comparing full leaf 
shading to full exposure of the fruit. Far-red 
light penetrates the canopy better than 
shorter-wavelength red light and western ex­
posure increased the Brix more than eastern 
(Reynolds et al. 1986). Berry temperature also 
can be a factor. Western exposed white grapes 
were 3 to 5°C warmer every hour of the 24 
compared to shaded berries at the end of July 
in New York. Red grapes are ordinarily warmer 
than white under the same exposure. 
Air circulation is important to minimize 
fungal attack on the shoots and berries and to 
facilitate rapid drying if they receive rain. An 
additional factor in the case of pyrazine family 
varietal flavors (Cabernet, Sauvignon blanc, et 
al.) is that the methoxypyrazines are unstable 
to light evidently even within the fruit (Hey­
mann et al. 1986; Pszczolkowski et al. 1985). 
Exposure of the fruit to light lowers or re­
moves these herbaceous components of vari­
etal flavors and shading retains them. 
5. Application of Sulfur and 
Other Pesticides 
Elemental sulfur as a dust or spray of the 
wettable powder is frequently applied to 
grapevines at risk for powdery mildew. Early 
applications, depending on conditions, sub-lime away and do not affect harvested fruit. If 
applied too near harvest, sulfur can appear in 
the must and then will be converted by yeast 
fermentation to hydrogen sulfide in the wine. 
Settling of white musts before fermentation 
will remove the sulfur in the lees, but the 
problem is more difficult with red wines. In 
any case the prevention of the problem is the 
better goal and is achievable by controlling 
the applications of dusting sulfur. Downy 
mildew is unknown or seldom a problem in 
areas like California with rainless summers, 
but its control can pose special problems. It 
has been controlled by use of Bordeaux mix­
ture and other copper-containing materials. 
We are told that in certain old European 
vineyards, copper has accumulated to the point 
of decreasing vine health and yield. Copper 
salts on the fruit can cause copper-catalyzed 
oxidation and haze formation in the wine. 
Control of other diseases and pests is generally 
quite specific to the area and pest involved 
and, again, falls beyond the scope of this book. 
Other fungicides carried into the fermenta­
tion might inhibit yeasts, but with approved 
applications this does not happen. Everyone is 
concerned that usage and residues of pesti­
cides are minimal and safe. In this country, as 
in most others, all pesticides must be specifi­
cally approved after extensive evaluation be­
fore they may be used legally on wine grapes. 
Approval for a different crop does not carry 
over to wine grapes. The timing, level, and 
manner of application are usually specified as 
well. It behooves the winemaker to be sure 
that these laws have been followed. Since laws 
differ, practices cannot be transferred at will 
from country to country, a fact of special in­
terest to wine exporters and importers. 
F. BERRY COMPOSITION, RIPENING, 
AND SEASONAL VARIATION 
1. Berry Development and Ripening 
The winemaker is directly concerned with the 
ripening of the berries, particularly in the late Viticulture for Winemakers 35 
stages. The period from berry set to veraison 
(onset of ripening) is less subject to problems 
such as overcropping, because the tiny berries, 
although numerous, are less total consumers 
of photosynthate than they become as ripen­
ing and rapid sugar accumulation begins. Nev­
ertheless, considerable growth takes place dur­
ing this early period. Berry size increases but 
pulp composition remains relatively constant 
especially in terms of high acid and low sugar 
concentration. Initial berry size increase is 
mostly from cell multiplication followed soon 
by both cell enlargement and cell multiplica­
tion. In the final stages berry enlargement is 
exclusively from cell enlargement (Staudt et al. 
1986). 
Two methods are commonly used to esti­
mate the relative contribution of cell division 
versus cell enlargement: mitosis occurrence 
and cell volume measurement. Mitotic cells 
become vanishingly small early in the develop­
ment of most fruits. The grape is no excep­
tion, although it may have a less abrupt and 
early transition from division to enlargement 
than some other fruits. Cessation of cell divi­
sion in the epidermis is probably not as early 
as in the pulp of the berry. Epidermal cells per 
berry only increased about 10% in the last 50 
days of ripening (Staudt et al. 1986). Cell divi­
sion and enlargement cease earliest in the 
seeds, being complete well before veraison. 
For these reasons the relative proportion of 
the berry tissues changes. At veraison, and 
when ripe, representative proportions would 
be pulp 74, 88%; skins 13, 8%; seeds 13, 4% 
by fresh weight. 
The peri carp tissue (berry pulp between the 
outer vascular layer by the skin and the seed 
locules) accounts for a large part of ripe berry 
volume. The total number of pericarp cells 
became constant (i.e., multiplication ceased) 
in Thompson seedless about 25 days after 
flowering (Harris et al. 1968). The average 
volume per cell, however, gives a double sig­
moid curve as does berry volume or berry 
weight. Figure 2-2 shows a typical example of 
this curve. These data are from Tokay, a 
larger-berry, lower-sugar, table grape, but are 36 Viticulture fur Winemakers 
~.~ 1.1 
19 
~.O 1.0 II 
17 
3.6 0.9 FRESH WT. 
16 
15 
3.2 0 .• 1~ 
13 )C 
2 .• 0.7 12 i 
11 "" Q .- ::; .. .... 0.6 10 :-2 .• .. ~ 'J:" 
-t • 9 au 
to -J ! Q .. 
IL 2.0 0.5 • ~ 7 -J 
1.6 0 .• 6 -c I-0 I-
1.2 0.3 
0 .• 02 
o. 
0 15 29 12 26 10 24 7 21 4 II 
MAY JUNE JULY AUG SEPT. 
Fig. 2-2. The double sigmoid cUlVe of growth and the accumulation of total soluble solids in Californian Tokay berries 
(Winkler et al. 1974). 
typical. Two periods of rapid volume increase 
are separated by a short slower lag period. 
The first rapid enlargement prior to veraison 
involves growth from perhaps 50 mg to about 
1 g for a typical wine grape giving a 20-fold 
increase. The second rapid growth period 
produced only another doubling or so, but the 
amount of increased fresh weight is equivalent 
to or greater than the whole previous period. 
Furthermore the moisture content is higher in the first stage with nearly all the sugar accu­
mulation in the later one. Therefore dry weight 
increase is much greater late. Moisture stress 
can affect the first enlargement stage espe­
cially strongly. 
The intermediate lag period marks the 
transition from growing to ripening (Figure 
2-2). Veraison, the onset of ripening, marks 
the resumption of rapid enlargement and co­
incides with the beginning of color changes Ooss of chlorophyll and production of antho­
cyanins in red varieties) and sugar accumula­
tion. Veraison is an abrupt change in a berry, 
but varies a little within a cluster and increas­
ingly over the vine, the vineyard, and the area. 
Veraison is considered to follow the comple­
tion of development of viable seeds. With seed 
maturity presumably assured (but at a similar 
stage for seedless varieties), the vine is free to 
make the berry as attractive as possible for 
birds and other potential seed dispersers. De­
sirable ripeness is the culmination of the pro­
duction of more attractive odors and flavors 
begun at veraison. High sugar, lower acid, rich 
color, and full varietal fruitiness are criteria 
for harvesting the ripe fruit. 
At normal fruit maturity, enlargement 
ceases and physiological accumulation of sugar 
ceases at about 25 Brix (Singleton et al. 1966a) 
in wine grapes. Further increase in the Brix of 
the juice is the result of water loss which 
decreases berry volume and turgor, eventually 
leading to raisining. Shriveling of the berries is 
ordinarily undesirable especially for table 
wines, since loss or modification of flavor 
and color are likely. In overcropped berries 
with inadequate sugar, concentration will oc­
cur, but this is a poor way to compensate for 
overcropping. 
A few specialty late-harvested table wines, 
notably Sauternes from France and Trocken­
beerenauslesen from Germany, make use of 
shriveling to get must sugar content so high 
that the wines remain sweet after fermenta­
tion. In these cases, infection by the so called Viticulture for Winemakers 37 
noble mold, Botrytis cinerea, is a required, de­
sirable factor. An appropriate weather cycle of 
sufficient humidity for infection followed by 
drying conditions is needed. The Botrytis in­
fection makes the berry skin permeable to 
rapid water loss and dehydration concentrates 
the sugar to 30% or more. Owing to red color 
loss via oxidation by the mold's enzyme lac­
case, the process is not suitable for red wines. 
Botrytization is a serious problem even at low 
percentage for red table wines and for any 
grape if continued high humidity leads to 
bunch rots of other types rather than dehydra­
tion. In the special instances that botrytization 
is favorable, new and concentrated flavors de­
velop, in addition to increased sugar. Since 
the mold metabolizes some of the acid, exces­
sive acidity in the wine is prevented and the 
acidity does not rise as fast as the sugar during 
the evaporative concentration. One indicator 
that Botrytis has been involved is the produc­
tion of gluconic acid, which can be found in 
the must or wine. 
2. Climatic Variation 
Regional and seasonal climate affect the rate 
and timing of berry development and ripening 
in each variety. The same variety grown in a 
warm vineyard, as compared to a cooler one, 
is expected to ripen earlier, accumulate more 
sugar by a given date, have less acid, and have 
less red color at a given sugar content. Table 
2-5 shows data drawn from five vintages of one 
specific red variety grown in several plots in 
Table 2-5. Average composition over five vintages by Climatic Region in California of Petite 8irab grapes and wines. 
Must Wine 
Color 
Climatic Harvest Acid Alcohol Acid Extract Tannin (arbitrary 
Region Date Brix (giL) pH (%) (giL) (giL) (mg/L) units) 
October 7 21.9 7.3 3.35 12.6 6.3 22 2500 679 
II October 3 22.5 6.6 3.41 13.0 5.5 29 2080 697 
III September 21 23.3 6.5 3.48 12.4 5.6 30 2000 645 
IV September 25 23.9 6.2 3.62 12.3 4.6 31 1980 487 
V September 2 22.7 5.7 3.65 11.7 4.8 27 1920 358 
Source: Calculated from Amerine and Winkler (1944). 38 Viticulture for Winemakers 
each of the five DD or HSU 10°C Climatic 
Regions of California. The wines were made 
and they and the musts were analyzed in one 
experimental winery by constant techniques 
thereby minimizing extraneous variability. 
Nevertheless, vintages did differ considerably, 
especially in total phenol and color as shown 
in Table 2-6. In fact these vintage differences 
statewide were as large or larger than the 
average HSU 10°C Climatic Region differ­
ences. How much of this vintage variation 
could be related to heat summation for the 
year falling outside the historical classification 
for the areas is unclear. The topography and 
soils did, of course, remain constant. The vin­
tage compositions over all five HSU 10°C Cli­
matic Regions were generally consistent with 
higher Brix coinciding with lower must acid 
and higher pH, as expected. 
The decrease in total fixed acids during 
ripening, and especially in hot areas/vintages, 
is partly the result of respiratory catabolism of 
these acids by the grape being enhanced by 
the warmer temperature. L( + )"tartaric acid, 
the major grape acid, is resistant to such 
catabolism, whereas the second-most predomi­
nant acid, L( -)"malic, is not. Therefore, the 
ratio of tartaric acid to malic acid of a given 
variety of grape is increased as ripeness nears 
in the warmer districts. However, if the harvest 
is made very early in a warm region or nor­
mally in a cool one this difference may not 
exist. Vintages may differ from expectations in 
this regard if no hot period occurs during ripening in a normally warm vineyard or such 
a hot period does occur in a cool region. 
Another, and often the more consistent 
reason for decreased acid concentration dur­
ing ripening, is enlargement. Total acid by 
titration is usually about 30 g/kg in the green 
berries before veraison. If the weight per berry 
doubled without introduction of more acid, 
the concentration would fall to 15 g/kg. In 
fact, in a series of eight varieties, the titratable 
acid calculated as tartaric was only 3.7 to 7.7 
g/ kg fresh weight when considered fully ripe 
(Kliewer 1965a). The tartrate/malate ratio 
generally favors tartaric acid early, falls as malic 
acid rises during the onset and early stages of 
ripening, and then the ratio rises again in the 
final stages ofripening. Varieties differ consid­
erably within this general pattern. Acid-retain­
ing varieties doing relatively well in hot cli­
mates may lose nearly all their malic acid 
while retaining tartaric (e.g., Emerald Ries­
ling) or may retain them both in nearly equal 
proportions (e.g., Colombard) (Kliewer 1965a). 
Varieties high in malic acid, e.g., Trebbiano or 
Malbec, are especially likely to go flat in hot 
vineyards. Such relationships are important to 
winemakers because of the interactions with 
malolactic fermentation and tartrate stabiliza­
tion (Chapters 6 and 8). Several other acids 
are present, including citric and ascorbic, but 
only in relatively small portions of the total 
acidity, generally totaling less than 10%. 
A third reason titratable acidity falls during 
ripening is that grape roots draw in against a 
Table 2-6. Variation by vintage in Petite Sirab over all five Climatic Regions (same data as Table 2-5). 
Must Wine 
Acid Tannin Color 
Vintage Brix (giL) pH (mg/L) (arb. units) 
1936 25.2 5.6 3.95 2800 1281 
1937 23.3 6.4 3.54 2260 443 
1938 21.0 6.1 3.44 2360 435 
1939 23.0 6.7 3.28 1440 417 
1940 21.8 7.5 3.37 1620 307 
High/lowx 100 120% 134% 120% 194% 417% 
Source: Calculated from Amerine and Winkler (1944). gradient certain cations, notably potassium. 
The roots and plant cells generally excrete 
protons by an energy-requiring membrane 
transfer to take these cations into the cells. 
The pH rises inside the root or cell concerned 
as does ash (mineraI) content and alkalinity of 
this ash along with the potassium during berry 
ripening. Part of the tartaric and other acids is 
thus neutralized, and a larger part as ripening 
proceeds. Like many other fruits, grapes and 
wine are relatively low in sodium and high in 
potassium. Low solubility of potassium bitar­
trate in wine requires chemical stabilization 
for permanently precipitate-free wine (see 
Chapter 8). 
Glucose and fructose make up a very high 
percentage of the total soluble carbohydrates 
in grape berries. In Vilis vinifera sucrose is very 
low, and seldom is over 10% of the total 
sugars in other Vilis species. Although the 
total level of sugar is the major criterion for 
ripeness, all three of these sugars are easily 
fermented by yeast and the winemaker has 
little reason to be concerned with their rela­
tive content in grapes. The rapid increase of 
sugar concentration during ripening in spite 
of further rapid enlargement shows that a 
great deal of the leaves' photosynthate is being 
accumulated in the berry. At veraison, glucose 
is usually higher than fructose. Most varieties 
have a glucose/fructose ratio near 1.0 at 
ripeness but lower (more fructose) when over­
ripe (Kliewer 1965a, 1965b). 
The prevailing weather affects sugar accu­
mulation, acid loss, and directly or indirectly 
all other constituents important to eventual 
wine quality. Selecting the optimum harvest­
ing point can, if harvest season weather per­
mits, do much to compensate for variety-re­
gion-weather differences. At proper harvest 
maturity the desired composition is relatively 
constant for good wines of a given type and 
style. 
3. Berry Composition 
The winemaker obviously is concerned with 
the composition of the berry at harvest and Viticulture for Winemakers 39 
the variations near harvest that can affect the 
wine's composition and, therefore, quality. 
Classes of grape berry components in roughly 
decreasing order are water and other inor­
ganic substances, carbohydrates, acids, phe­
nols of all types, nitrogen compounds, ter­
penoids, fats and lipoids, volatile odorants, or 
other flavorous compounds. In each of these 
categories and among others not so easily cat­
egorized, there usually are very many individ­
ual substances. Analytical methods have been 
improved in many cases and could be in oth­
ers to the point of detection and quantitation 
of parts per billion (ppb) or less. One ppb is 
equivalent to 1 mg per kL or in more readily 
comprehended terms about 4 cm in the dis­
tance from San Francisco to New York, or 3 
cm out of the London to Moscow distance or 
one heartbeat in the life of a 25-year-old per­
son. Obviously, at some minimum the pres­
ence of a component or a contaminant be­
comes unimportant. 
New compounds in grapes continue to be 
reported and added to the several hundred 
already identified. Again, grapes often differ 
by variety and source. Therefore, it does not 
appear particularly useful to attempt to tabu­
late in detail all the known components of a 
typical grape or wine. Rough estimates of gen­
eral analyses by classes are given in Table 2-7. 
Some possible components can be important 
in trace amounts for particular reasons or 
under peculiar circumstances (biotin as a yeast 
growth factor or pesticide residues for regula­
tion, for example). 
Another problem is the distribution of par­
ticular components within the grape. Even ma­
jor components are not uniformly distributed. 
For example, the most easily expressed juice 
usually comes from the outer flesh or meso­
carp. It is usually nearly 1 Brix higher in sugar 
and often half the acidity compared to the 
juice from nearer the seeds produced by firmer 
but still moderate pressure. Grinding or hard 
pressing yields higher pH, higher potassium, 
higher nitrogen, and, unless some shriveled or 
raisined berries are present, lower sugar com­
pared to the more easily expressed juice. Some 40 Viticulture fur WinemaJum 
Table 2-7. Rough estimates of the typical percentages by weight of components of wine grapes at harvest, 
in juice and in wines. 
Dry Table Wines 
Class of compound Berries Juice From juice Pomace fermented 
Water 74 76 86 8S 
Inorganic salts O.S 0.4 0.2 0.2 
Carbohydrates 24 23 3 4 
Alcohols 0 
Acids 0.6 
Phenols 0.2 
Nitrogenous compounds 0.2 
Lipids 0.2 
Terpenoids 0.02 
Other volatiles 0.01 
Miscellaneous 0.1 
Total 100 
components are confined to or much en­
hanced in seeds, skins, or stems and are par­
ticularly variable in must or wine, depending 
on the sampling and processing involved. 
Grape skins, for example, are ordinarily the 
sole source of anthocyanins. Pressure alone at 
a commercially practical level does not release 
much red color from fresh skins, but after 
heating to about 70°C or greater or with alco­
hol as in fermentation the anthocyanins read­
ily leach into the pressable fluid. 
Ignoring the possibility of leaves or other 
contaminants in commercially harvested 
grapes, the fresh weight of typical wine grape 
clusters are made up of about 3% (2 to 8%) 
stems, 15% (5 to 20%) skins, 4% (0 to 6%) 
seeds, with the flesh/pulp/juice accounting 
for the remaining 78% (74 to 90%). Small­
berried varieties have proportionately less flesh 
and more skins. Berry size increases with seeds 
per berry (minimum zero, maximum four) 
considerably more than just the added weight 
of each seed within a specific varietal harvest. 
Of course, varieties and harvests having small 
berries and average seed numbers approach­
ing four have the highest percentage of fresh 
weight as seed. These figures become impor­
tant to wines made by fermenting, and thereby 
extracting, these relatively solid tissues along 
with the juice. For example, only about 10% 
of the total phenols of the berry are present in 
the juice whereas about 30% is in the skins 0 10 10 
0.7 0.7 0.6 
0.Ql 0.01 0.1 
0.1 0.1 O.OS 
0.01 0.01 0.02 
0.Ql 0.01 O.QlS 
0.Ql 0.1 0.1 
0.Ql 0.5 0.1 
100 100 100 
and 60% in the seeds of seeded varIetIes. 
About half of the total extractable phenol of 
the berries appears in red wines. 
a. Water and Minerals 
Traces of almost any leachable component of 
the soil can be found in grapes, but not in the 
same ratios-some are favored and some are 
excluded by grape roots. Grapes require the 
same minerals all plants need. Potassium is by 
far the major cation taken up followed by 
magnesium and calcium. Major inorganic an­
ions are nitrate and phosphate. These plus 
sulfur, iron, and certain trace minerals are all 
needed in varying amounts as vine nutrients. 
Total ash content of ripe juice is of the order 
of 2 to 6 g/kg. 
The mature grape vine via its very deep 
root system is reasonably tolerant of dry condi­
tions. Mild water stress as harvest approaches 
speeds sugar accumulation by slowing vine 
growth, and is generally considered good for 
quality. Nevertheless, the vine's capacity to 
minimize water needs by restricting berry size, 
etc., is limited, and the water content of an 
unshriveled ripe berry is high and relatively 
constant. 
b. Carbohydrates 
Berries contain in their vascular and other 
tougher tissues some cellulosic polymers. 
These are insoluble and do not appear in juice or wine. Pectins are sizable polymers of galac­
turonic acid and its methyl ester with a small 
proportion of other sugar units. Total pectin 
per berry approximately doubled after verai­
son but, since berry enlargement was greater, 
dropped in concentration (Silacci and Morri­
son 1990). A majority of the pectin is bound to 
the cell wall, presumably via calcium linkages 
since it can be freed by a chelator. Water-solu­
ble free pectin increased during ripening and 
was higher in a warmer climate vineyard. The 
total of pectic polysaccharides at ripeness was 
about 0.75% of the fresh weight of Cabernet 
Sauvignon berries and those that were water­
soluble made up a little less than one-tenth of 
that concentration. 
Glucose plus fructose are by far the greatest 
portion of total soluble solids in the grape or 
its juice. Sucrose is low in grapes, especially 
Vitis vinifera, and is readily hydrolyzed to glu­
cose plus fructose. As a consequence, Brix (by 
definition g of sucrose/100 g solution), prop­
erly determined in juice by densitometry or 
refractometry, is often considered a sugar con­
centration measure. It is important to remem­
ber that other sugars, acids, and other soluble 
solids are present and may contribute to mouth 
feel, but the unfermented, nonvolatile extract 
in dry wines is only of the order of 2 Brix 
when the must Brix was 22 Brix. One would 
expect about 100 g/kg (110 giL) each of 
glucose and fructose in that must. 
Fructose especially and glucose as well are 
sweet and contribute this feature to juice and, 
if still present, to wine. Several other sugars 
have been identified from grapes and/or are 
known to be present owing to biosynthetic 
considerations. Arabinose, rhamnose, ribose, 
xylose, fucose, maltose, mannose, melibiose, 
raffinose, and stachyose may be mentioned. 
Yeast may modifY these or contribute others to 
wine. Some carbohydrate derivatives are pro­
duced by molds (such as gluconic and glu­
curonic acids) or by pectinases (such as galac­
turonic acid). These are also carboxy acids, of 
course, and thus confuse classification. Simi­
larly anthocyanins and certain other phenols 
and terpenes occur in grapes as glycosides, Viticulture for Winemakers 41 
malvidin-3-glucoside for example, and also 
muddle easy categorization. For the most part 
the winemaker can focus on glucose and 
fructose and ignore other carbohydrates as 
such except in special cases such as pentoses, 
unfermentable by yeasts, or anthocyanin-
3,5-diglucosides as indicators of nonvinifera 
parentage. 
c. Alcohols 
Ethanol is nearly absent in musts prior to 
fermentation unless carbonic maceration of 
the grapes has been practiced (see Chapter 5). 
This is true of most other alcohols. Traces of 
inositol or glycerol are present in grapes. 
Methanol in parts per million is found in 
musts or wine from hydrolysis of pectin methyl 
galacturonate. 
d. Acids 
Free acids and the resultant low (3.l to 3.5) 
pH are the causes of tart flavor; and also help 
keep the microbiological and chemical reac­
tions properly controlled. Small amounts of 
many acids occur in grapes or their products. 
Many, such as amino acids or fatty acids, are 
considered in other categories and contribute 
little to the total titration value of wines. In 
addition to the major acids mentioned earlier 
(tartaric and malic) small amounts of citric, 
isocitric, aconitic, glutaric, fumaric, pyrroli­
done carboxylic, 2-ketoglutaric, and shikimic 
acids may also be found in musts. Caftaric 
(caffeoyl tartaric) acid and its relatives are the 
major phenols of fresh juice. Additional acids, 
notably lactic and succinic, are found in wine. 
Acetic acid is high in wines turning to vinegar, 
and propionic or butyric acids may also be 
found in spoiled grapes or wines. 
e. Phenols 
Phenolic substances are very important to 
grape and wine characteristics and quality. 
Collectively they include the red pigments, the 
brown-forming substrates, the astringent fla­
vors, and the known bitter substances of grapes 
and wine. Some of them are easily oxidized 
and participate in further reactions. At least 42 Viticulture fQT Winemakers 
three entire books have been written about 
this important, diverse, and complicated group 
of compounds from grapes (Durmishidze 1955; 
Singleton and Esau 1969; Paronetto 1977). The 
qualitative mixture of particular phenols is ge­
netically controlled and grape varieties differ 
both qualitatively and quantitatively over a 
considerable range. Vintage differences or lo­
cation differences with a specific variety also 
can be quantitatively large. 
To simplify considerably, the major groups 
of phenols the winemaker need be particularly 
concerned about in the grape are the pheno­
lic acids, the flavonoids, and the tannin poly­
mers. Beware that in older or less critical 
literature they may be all lumped as tannins. 
Each group differs in berry location and sen­
sory or reactivity contributions. 
The two major subgroups of the phenolic 
acids are the hydroxycinnamates and the hy-droxybenzoates. The important hydroxycinna­
mates in grapes are derivatives of caffeic, p­
coumaric, and ferulic acids. They occur pri­
marily in the easily expressed juice and are 
about the same (within varietal variation) in 
red or white wines. Their actual form in the 
grape is as esters on tartaric acid-caftaric, 
coutaric, and fertaric acids (Figure 2-3). Al­
though subject to considerable varietal varia­
tion, the typical juice content in Vitis vinifera, if 
all oxidative and hydrolytic losses are pre­
vented, is respectively about 150, 20, and 1 
mgjL (Singleton et al. 1986a). About 20% of 
its total is usually in the cis form for coutaric 
and only about 2% for caftaric acid. 
Postharvest hydrolysis, especially by pectin 
esterase, frees at least part of the hydroxycin­
namates of grapes from their tartrate portion. 
Thus, the three original compounds with their 
respective hydrolysis products and cis-trans iso-
P. P. NH2 
HOOC-CH2-NH-C-VH-NH-C-CH2-CH2-CH- COOH HO° H 0 COOH I II , 
H 0 ~ !. C=<:-C-O-C-H 
H H~-OH 
I 
COOH 
CAFTARIC ACID 
Ho{}R 
Me~ 
HO-Q-R COUTARIC 
ACID 
FERTARIC 
ACID 
HO 
Hoi }cOOH 
HO 
GALLIC ACID fH2 
S OH 
HOec Q H K·~ 
H-b-O-C-C=9V H 
HO-~-H H-
booH 
2-S-GLUTATHIONYL CAFTARIC ACID 
H 
MA LVI 01 N-3-D-GLUCOSI DE 
Fig. 2-3. Structures of representative phenols of grapes. mers total 12 phenolic substances capable of 
giving different HPLC (high performance liq­
uid chromatography) peaks. There are addi­
tional bound forms of these acids in grapes, 
for example p-coumarate and caffeate acyl 
groups on anthocyanin sugars. Caftaric and 
coutaric acids give the same quinone when 
oxidized by polyphenoloxidase (PPO). This 
and other quinones from the vicinal diphenols 
of grapes react rapidly with sulfhydryl deriva­
tives. In grapes the first product is ordinarily 
2-S-glutathionyl caftaric acid (Figure 2-3). 
While this product does not occur in undam­
aged grapes, its formation is so rapid that 
extreme care must be taken in preparing sam­
ples to be sure they reflect the grape's original 
content. Losses, reactions, and color changes 
(golden through amber) in musts and wines 
depend upon original caftaric-coutaric acid 
content, exposure to air, PPO content and 
activity, other phenolic substrates, pH, and 
glutathione (or other reactant) content. 
Individual V. vinifera varietal samples vary 
in all these components. Caftaric acid ranged 
from 16 mgjL in Calmeria to 435 mgjL in 
Carnelian; coutaric from a trace in Calmeria 
and 4 mgjL in Gewiirztraminer and Thomp­
son Seedless to 53 mg/L in Emerald Riesling 
(Singleton et al. 1986a). Other Vitis species 
varied even more widely with V. rotundifolia 
lacking these specific compounds, commercial Viticulture 1M Winemakers 43 
vanetJes derived from V. labrusca averaging 
about 100 mgjL higher than V. vinifera, and 
V. aestivalis the highest at 1350 mgjL caftaric 
and 340 mgjL total coutaric acid. Within a 
given variety these compounds increase over 
the ripening period on a per berry basis show­
ing net biosynthesis (Singleton et al. 1986b). 
This synthesis is usually adequate to maintain 
the concentration nearly constant if all oxida­
tion is prevented in sampling (Table 2-8). In 
the typical commercial situation with pH in­
crease, etc., the residual must sample concen­
tration decreases with ripening. 
The hydroxycinnamates are important to 
the winemaker as the essentially irreducible 
minimum phenols of all musts and wines and 
as a preferred PPO substrate leading at least 
initially to desirable golden colors for white 
wines. They are in most wines, at least those 
not subjected to appreciable barrel extraction, 
the major phenols that are not flavonoids. The 
hydroxybenzoic acids and other smaller phe­
nols are primarily degradation products and 
most only appear, then in small amounts, with 
mold action or wine aging. The most impor­
tant is gallic acid (Figure 2-3). Ordinarily low 
in fresh juice (I -2 mgjL) gallic acid increases 
with pomace contact yet was very low in grape 
skins of four white varieties over two seasons 
(Singleton and Trousdale 1983). These and 
other data indicate that hydrolysis of O-epi-
Table 2-8. Colombard grapes, caftaric and coutaric acid content as affected by ripeness 
Caftaric Acid Coutaric Acid 
JLg/mi JLg/mi 
Juice Berry JLg/berry JLg/berry 
Brix weightg trans cis trans trans cis trans 
12.8 1.60 95 Trace 141 13 2.8 19 
13.4 1.57 98 Trace 143 12 2.4 18 
14.2 1.64 94 1.1 142 11 2.2 17 
15.4 1.68 96 1.4 148 13 2.7 21 
16.2 1.64 94 0.9 141 12 2.4 19 
17.2 1.63 95 1.3 142 13 2.5 19 
18.3 1.79 93 1.6 152 13 3.5 21 
19.0 1.77 97 2.2 156 14 4.3 23 
19.8 1.79 97 2.5 157 15 4.1 24 
Source: Singleton et al. (] 986b). 44 Viticulture fur Winemakers 
catechin gallate is probably a major source of 
gallic acid. This gallate ester is found in seeds 
and decreases as grapes ripen (Singleton et al. 
1966b; Su and Singleton 1969). 
The flavonoids make up a very large frac­
tion, 85% or so, of the total phenols of the 
usual seeded grape berry. As a group they are 
very low in juice, quite high in seeds, and 
generally high in skins but variable by variety. 
The skins have, except for red juice varieties, 
all the anthocyanins of the grape. They have 
some but variable portions of the flavan-3-01s 
(catechins) and most if not all of the small 
amount of flavonol and flavanonol glycosides. 
The seeds have the rest of the monomeric 
catechins and a large portion of the berry's 
dimeric and larger catechin polymers. The 
latter are the condensed or non hydrolyzable 
tannins of the grape. Gallates esterified to 
(-)..epicatechin, (-)..gallocatechin, their poly­
mers and possibly other units in that series 
might be confused with gallotannins or ellagi­
tannins, but these latter truly hydrolyzable tan­
nins are believed absent in V. vinijcra grapes. 
They are found in aged wine from barrel 
extracts. 
The anthocyanins of vinifera varieties are 
found as 3-g1ucosides of all nature's most com­
mon anthocyanidins except pelargonidin, i.e., 
cyanidin, peonidin, delphinidin, petunidin, 
and malvidin. Malvidin-3-g1ucoside, at least in 
most of the dark red wine varieties, is the 
major anthocyanin representing usually 40% 
or more and it apparently makes up a majority 
of those red pigments that are acylated. The 
acylated pigments of the grape have acetate, 
p-coumarate, caffeate, and perhaps other acids 
esterified to carbon six of the sugar. In most 
nonvinifera varieties anthocyanin-3,5-digluco­
sides also occur. Most red juice dyer (see Glos­
sary) varieties including Rubired and Alicante 
Bouschet have Vitis rupestris parentage and 
3,5-diglucoside pigments. Some countries, no­
tably Germany, do not allow growing of fruit­
ing varieties with nonvinifera parentage and 
exclude wine importations having this feature. 
There is nothing wrong with such grapes or 
wines, but they have been proscribed in con-nection with local control of the insect pest 
phylloxera. The thinking appears to be since 
our growers are forbidden to grow nonvinifera 
varieties, we will not permit importation of 
wines from such varieties. Presence of 3,5-dig­
lucoside anthocyanins is the identifier used for 
red non-vinifera. 
Red grape varieties can generally be distin­
guished from one another or at least divided 
into groups by their specific ratios of the dif­
ferent anthocyanins. The chemistry of these 
compounds is complex with the pH of the 
medium having a great effect on the color 
intensity displayed. Copigmentation (color ef­
fects related to concentration and association 
with other noncolored phenols and other sub­
stances), reactivity, and polymerization affect 
analyses and apparent content. For our pur­
poses here it is most useful to consider antho­
cyanins as a group. Calculated as malvidin-3-
glucoside (Figure 2-3), the total amount of 
pigment in berries of a dark red wine variety 
such as Cabernet Sauvignon is of the order of 
1000 mg/kg fresh weight. It may be as high as 
5000 mg/kg for a dyer (red juice variety) like 
Alicante Bouschet. Lighter varieties, especially 
if a hot growing season prevails, have a frac­
tion of Cabernet's value down to perhaps 10 
mg/kg for pink varieties and, of course, zero 
for white. 
Veraison, the onset of ripening, is easiest to 
note in red varieties as the point at which 
anthocyanin accumulation begins in each 
berry. Seed flavonoids are high early and gen­
erally do not change greatly in total amount 
during ripening. The other flavonoids of skins, 
anthocyanins, and along with them the berry's 
total phenol content increase on a per berry 
basis until the sugar content is fairly well de­
veloped (Singleton 1966). In the last month or 
so of ripening the total per berry tends to be 
fairly constant and then may fall with high 
ripeness. On the other hand, since the seeds 
are high in phenol and mature early, the juice 
is low and fairly constant in content, and berry 
enlargement great, the concentration of total 
extractable phenol as a portion of the fresh 
weight in a typical variety falls from perhaps 5 g/kg or so at veraison to 3 to 4 g/kg calcu­
lated as gallic acid when fully ripe. 
The flavan-3-0Is (catechins) are the most 
important monomeric flavonoids and by far 
the most prevalent of this group are (+)­
catechin and (-)"epicatechin (Figure 2-4). Al­
though high in the seeds and usually in roughly 
equal amounts, they are also found in the 
skins but in varietally variable amounts (Sin­
gleton and Esau 1969; Singleton and Trous­
dale 1983). Total content in the berry of ripe, 
seeded V. vinifera wine varieties is of the order 
of 500 mg/kg fresh weight for each of these 
two catechins with much smaller amounts of 
gall ocate chins and epicatechin gallates. The 
OH 
Hl8Ot..©t o -OH I 
I 
OH H 
CATECHIN (2R, 3S) 
HO 
( HEPICATECHIN) 
((+)CATECHIN) 
HO 
81 DIMER OH 
OH Viticulture Jor Winemakers 45 
flavan-3-0Is are not found as glycosides, 
methoxylated derivatives, or, except for gal­
lates, acylated forms. They occur free (or as 
dimers and polymers which we will consider as 
tannins). 
Catechins contain two chiral centers or 
asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms and 
therefore can have four isomers for each group 
(catechins or gallocatechins, Figure 2-4). The 
asymmetric carbon two is set by biosynthetic 
considerations in the Rectus form, whereas 
both carbon three isomers, Rand S, exist in 
grapes giving ( + )"catechin and (-)-epicatechin 
(and not all catechin or ± catechin as is 
sometimes erroneously stated). The same con-
~OH 
HO~O~.'~ ~H OH 
OH b-C~OH g~H 
EPICATECHIN GALLATE 
H 
OH 
A POLYMERIC CONDENSED TANNIN 
Fig. 24. Structures of representative flavan-3-01s of grapes. 46 Viticulture for Winemakers 
dition prevails in the gallocatechin series. This 
is true in tea and plants in general although 
isomerization at both centers is possible. Any 
one isomer can give all four, if fully isomer­
ized. This does not seem to occur with wines 
under usual processing or aging. ( + )"Catechin 
and (-)..epicatechin have different rates of re­
activity in certain situations and therefore 
should not be considered equivalent. 
The catechins are dimerized in the grape 
and all four possible isomers four-eight linked 
between catechin and epicatechin occur (Lea 
et al. 1979). In the sense that these dimers 
easily precipitate with added gelatin and the 
monomers do not, they are tannins. The for­
mation of trimers, tetramers, and larger tan­
nins apparently proceeds similarly in grape 
seeds producing all possible isomers but not 
necessarily in equal proportions. Consider that 
the four-eight carbon linkage produces a new 
chiral center at carbon four and thus doubles 
the possible isomers. That, plus other linkages 
such as four-six and different order and pro­
portions of catechin, epicatechin, and some 
gallocatechins and gallates make the poly­
meric group potentially very diverse. They all 
are astringent, bitter, and precipitate with pro­
teins. The molecular weight of these tannins 
appears to be about 4000 and less or roughly 
decameric maximum. They are called pro­
cyanidins because when appropriately treated 
with acid and oxidation they yield cyanidin. 
To the extent that gallocatechins are present 
they yield delphinidin as well, but that seems 
usually very small with grape tannins. 
Because of their important effects in wine 
and on its characteristics the wine maker should 
be very concerned with these tannins. The 
total amount in seeded wine grapes is of the 
order of 1000 mg/kg fresh weight. Seeds are 
the main source of these compounds in the 
berry. They are absent in the juice of commer­
cial vinifera varieties and variably low in skins. 
Stems contain tannins, but tend to be difficult 
to control in winemaking and to yield off­
flavors. From a viticultural view the wine­
maker's concerns center mostly on the varietal 
differences, but there are considerable dif-ferences by region and year. In general, pro­
viding the grapes get ripe, cooler conditions 
give more tannins as well as more antho­
cyanins. Too little red color in grapes from 
hot climate vineyards is compounded in the 
wines by too little tannin (Singleton and 
Trousdale 1992). 
If one tabulates all the individual phenols 
which have been identified in grapes it is a 
substantial list. Compounded by changes 
wrought during must preparation, fermenta­
tion, processing, and aging, several hundred 
different specific phenolic substances may be 
present in aged red wines. Their characteris­
tics, reactivity, and sensory contributions vary 
tremendously by class and even individually. 
Owing to their rather high amount and wide 
range of properties, they are considered the 
most important compounds in differentiating 
grapes and wines of different types. 
f. Nitrogenous Substances 
Ammonium salts, amino acids and peptides, 
proteins, and nucleic acid derivatives are the 
major nitrogen-containing components of 
grapes. Minor amounts of others may be pre­
sent and important in some contexts, e.g., 
pyrazines in Cabernet or Sauvignon blanc aro­
mas. From the winemaker's viewpoint the 
grape's nitrogen compounds are important as 
nutrients for the yeast's fermentation, as en­
zymes such as phenolase (PPO), and as factors 
involved in haze formation especially in white 
wines. Another recently recognized concern is 
with urea in wine because with heat or time 
urea combines with ethanol to yield urethane. 
While this is primarily a wine fermentation 
and processing matter (because urea is not 
present in grapes), the amount produced dur­
ing fermentation depends partly upon the 
arginine content of the must. Arginine is 
higher if grapes have plentiful nitrogen and 
this is also true of other free amino acids. 
Arginine can be the highest amino acid in 
must and usually is in other vine parts (Kliewer 
1967). 
Peynaud and Maurie (1953) showed that 
the total nitrogen content increased during ripening in Bordeaux during August 25 to 
October 8 from 1.00 mg/berry to 1.27 
mg/berry for Cabernet Sauvignon, 1.07 to 
1.51 for Merlot, 0.95 to 1.93 for Sauvignon 
blanc, and 0.97 to 1.59 mg/berry for Semil­
Ion. During the same period the berry weight 
increased, respectively, 216, 182, 184, and 
193%, and thus the concentration of total 
nitrogen per kg fresh weight decreased in all 
but the Sauvignon blanc. The total nitrogen 
per berry in the seeds was relatively high with 
a slight intermediate maximum, whereas that 
in skins and pulp or juice increased during 
this ripening period. Table 2-9 gives the rela­
tive distribution of the total nitrogen on Octo­
ber 1 which had the highest sugars. The rela­
tively high percentage of the total nitrogen in 
the skins and seeds is probably a reason po­
mace-fermented wines more rarely stick for 
lack of yeast nutrients than do juice wines. 
Some of this nitrogen is usable by the yeast, 
but a relatively large proportion, compared to 
juice, must be in polymeric and less soluble 
forms including proteins and nucleic acids. 
Much of this material is not extracted or pre­
cipitates and is carried away in discarded po­
mace and lees rather than appearing in the 
wine. 
Juice contains from 0 to 150 mg/L of nitro­
gen as ammonium salts (Cordonnier 1966). 
Ammonium content depends upon nitrogen 
availability to the vine and is rapidly used by 
yeast. The majority of the proteins that can 
cause haze in white wines come from the 
grapes and at least part survives fermentation. 
The usual wine yeasts are not very good at 
hydrolyzing and using polypeptides or pro-Viticulture for Winemakers 47 
teins. Most of the nucleic acid fragments found 
in wine apparently arise not from the grapes 
but from the yeasts. About 23 mg/L of one 
wine's nitrogen was from nucleic acid frag­
ments (Tercelj 1965) and the content is typi­
cally low. Using the usual conversion factor, if 
1 g N/kg fresh weight were all protein (of 
course it is not) the maximum total protein 
would be 6.25 g/kg fresh weight. Murphey et 
al. (I989) found 70 to 120 mg/L of protein in 
juice of Gewiirztraminer and Riesling increas­
ing with increasing pH in the 2.9 to 3.6 range. 
No soluble protein was detected in juice be­
fore veraison, but it accumulated afterward in 
parallel with sugar. 
Table 2-10 (from data of Peynaud and Mau­
rie 1953) indicates about 300 mg/L of total 
nitrogen in juice. Other studies report 200 to 
2000 mg/L or so in all forms in musts (Ough 
1968). Protein at about 280 mg/L is indicated 
in Table 2-10. About 100 mg N/L as polypep­
tides should mean about 625 mg/L of the 
peptides themselves and one would expect to­
tal amino acids to be of the same order of 
magnitude. Cantagrel et al. (1982) report val­
ues for mg of amino acids/L of must to cover 
a two- to sixfold range in anyone variety and 
average from 400 mg/L for Grenache to 2.15 
giL for Pinot noir. In view of such variation 
one must beware of generalizations. 
A large fraction of the amino acids of juice 
ordinarily is proline. Ough (1968); and Ough 
and Stashak (1974) reported proline was ap­
preciable in all cluster tissues, although low in 
stems. Of the whole cluster's proline 52 to 
76% was in the juice from five varieties. Pro­
line nitrogen accounted for 8 to 30% of the 
Table 2-9. Distribution of total nitrogen in ripe berries of four varieties (Peynaud and Maurie 1953). 
TotalN % of Total N 
Variety Sugar % mg/kg fresh weight Seeds Skins Pulp 
Cabernet Sauvignon 21.2 977 42 43 16 
Merlot 22.4 9S1 49 33 IS 
Sauvignon blanc 22.2 1291 25 54 22 
Semillon IS.0 S49 26 51 23 48 Viticulture for Winemaker.s 
Table 2-10. Distribution of total nitrogen in ripe juice of four varieties (Peynaud and Maurie 1953). 
Total N 
Variety (mg/L) NH4 
Cabernet Sauvignon 257 19 
Merlot 285 28 
Sauvignon blanc 460 17 
Semillon 282 24 
total juice nitrogen and the percentage in­
creased during ripening while ammonium salts 
fell. The range of proline content was 304 to 
4850 mg/L of juice and the mean was 742 
mg/L for 78 samples involving several vari­
eties. A Malbec sample was the highest in total 
nitrogen (2160 mg/L) and proline (1660 
mg/L) but Ruby Cabernet was highest in the 
percentage of nitrogen in the proline fraction 
and second highest in proline, 1190 mg/L. 
Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon average 
high in proline while Riesling and Sauvignon 
blanc are low. Among 20 amino acids usually 
found in musts, proline was almost always the 
highest one and frequently half of the total 
(Huang and Ough 1989; Usseglio-Tomasett 
and Bosia 1990). Only 10% or so of the pro­
line was in peptides. Some other amino acids, 
e.g., glutamic acid, had a larger portion in the 
peptides. The second most abundant amino 
acid was present usually of the order of one­
fourth of the proline content. It varied by 
grape variety and was arginine with Cabernet 
Sauvignon, Barbera and Riesling, serine 
derivatives with Cortese, and alanine with 
Nebbiolo. The amount and distribution of the 
various amino acids were considerably affected 
by variety, vineyard, and rootstock (Huang and 
Ough 1989). 
Most of these amino acids are readily uti­
lized by yeasts and their content drops or 
disappears with fermentation. Proline is an 
exception Ongledew et al. 1987). Under usual 
wine fermentation conditions-anaerobic, 
high initial sugar-yeasts do not use proline 
and may excrete some so that the content in 
the wine is not much lower or even higher 
than in the juice. Of course, extraction from % of Total N 
AminoN Polypeptide Protein 
31 37 13 
29 28 15 
39 37 8 
39 19 18 
skins or seeds may raise the value if pomace is 
fermented with the juice. 
g. Lipids and Related Compounds 
The extractable fat content in grape seeds is 
about 10% as an average but can range from 
about 1 to 20% (Kinsella 1974). Grape seed oil 
can be a useful byproduct, but has no known 
direct effect in winemaking. About 90% of the 
fatty extract is triglycerides with about 75% 
linoleic and 10% oleic acid. It is a good 
semidrying, edible oil and has a relatively high 
vitamin E content. 
There is lipoidal material extractable from 
other berry parts including glycolipids, phos­
pholipids, perhaps free fatty acids, bloom wax 
on the skin, etc. Gallander and Peng (1980) 
reported 1.5 to 2.4 g/kg offresh Weight in the 
flesh and skins. Polar lipids made up more 
than half of this total with V. vinifera and the 
reverse for V. labrusca varieties tested. In the 
neutral fraction the major fatty acids were 
palmitic, stearic, arachidic, and behenic acids 
for all varieties. In the polar fraction, linoleic 
and linolenic were major contributors for V. 
vinifera and palmitic acid for V. labrusca. The 
total fatty acids released by saponification from 
flesh and skins was rather similar, 403 to 519 
mg/kg berries for one white and three red 
vinifera varieties (Roufet et al. 1987). The con­
tent in the skins was one and one-half to three 
times that in the seed-free pulp. Although 
generally reaching maximum content during 
the final stages, the lipid content was quite 
variable over the last month of ripening (Bar­
ron et al. 1989). The variability did not appear 
to be random or experimental, but related to 
an alternating sequence. Also extracted by lipophilic solvents along 
with true lipids would be small amounts of 
carotenes, chlorophylls, and sterols. Fatty acids 
and sterols can have a role in yeast multiplica­
tion. Lipoxygenase action on unsaturated fatty 
acids produces hexenal and derivatives con­
tributing to grassy odors sometimes noted. 
Barron and Santa-Maria (1990) have suggested 
a role for triglycerides as a ripening indicator 
based on their postulated status as an energy 
reserve. 
h. Terpenoids 
Terpenes are metabolites of mevalonic acid 
characterized by multiples of branched five­
carbon units resembling isoprene. Carotenes 
and sterols have already been mentioned un­
der lipids because they are extractable with 
fats by solvents such as ether. The group of 
primary interest to grape growers and wine­
makers is the monoterpenes and their deriva­
tives. 
Monoterpenes are 10-carbon compounds 
many of which are volatile and odorous. Some 
such as pinene in turpentine have solvent-like, 
resinous odors, are hydrocarbons, are not very 
stable and not always pleasant. Many, such as 
geraniol and linalool (Figure 2-5), have pleas­
ant floral odors. This group is the important 
factor in the aroma of the Muscat family of 
aromatic grapes (Strauss et al. 1986; Rapp 
1988). 
Renewed studies in recent years have shown 
the great complexity possible among the ter­
penoid odorants of grapes. It has also been 
found that a considerable portion of these 
compounds occurs in bound forms, particu­
larly glycosides. These bound forms are too 
large and water soluble to have odors and they 
do not seem to contribute appreciably to bit­
terness, but when they are hydrolyzed the odor 
is released. Furthermore, others including 24 
different CI3 norisoprenoids have been found 
in varieties outside the Muscat group, 
Chardonnay for example (Sefton et al. 1989). 
Examples include vitispirane, 1,2,6-trimethyl-
1,2-dihydronaphthalene (TDN), and damas­
cenone (Figure 2-5). These three are present Viticulture for Winemakers 49 
in JUIce of mainly Riesling largely as precur­
sors that convert to these compounds upon 
heating (or aging) at up to about 150, 100, 70 
J,Lg/L, respectively (Strauss et al. 1987). 
In Muscat Alexandria the free and espe­
cially the bound terpenes increased about 
threefold during ripening reaching a total of 
about 2000 J,Lg/kg fresh weight (Park et al. 
1991). This was distributed about 48% in the 
flesh, 42% in the skins in bound forms, and 
6% in the flesh, 4% in the skins in free forms. 
Although the total amount and distribution of 
individual terpenes varies, these relationships 
appear typical. 
The distribution and amount of monoter­
penes appeared to fluctuate in response to 
temperature (Park et al. 1991). The bound 
forms increased even in overripening but the 
free forms decreased suggesting loss by 
volatilization. In Gewiirztraminer in distinc­
tion from Muscat, linalool is low relative to 
geraniol, nerol, and citronellol (Marais 1987). 
The total of free monoterpenes in free-run 
juice was the order of 730 J,Lg/L for Muscat 
Alexandria, 25 J,Lg/L for Riesling, and 35 
J,Lg/L for Bukettraube (Marais 1986; Marais 
and Van Wyk 1986). Gewiirztraminer berries 
exposed to light had more bound monoter­
penes than those partially shaded and they 
had more than fully shaded ones (Reynolds 
and Wardle 1989). The total free monoter­
penes were relatively constant about 1200 
J,Lg/L in their rather cool (British Columbia, 
Canada) vineyard. 
The glycosidically bound forms can be con­
verted to the free odorous form by time, heat, 
or hydrolysis with glycosidases. Adaptation of 
this knowledge to winemaking is being exten­
sively studied. The empirical treatments prac­
ticed years ago by muscatel makers involving 
heating of muscat musts with their skins to 
increase aroma are now seen to have had a 
sound basis. 
i. Volatile Aroma Compounds 
In addition to monoterpenes, there are many 
odorous compounds and their precursors pre­
sent in grapes. Relatively large amounts of 50 Viticulture for Winemaker.5 
y~:s _ ~ ~ ~OH ~Cf4 CH 2 I 
GERANIOL LlNALOOL 
VITISPIRANE I, I,S-TRI METHYL-I,2-DIHYDRO­
NAPHTHALENE 
~K:s (v ~ CHI 
CABERNET 
PYRAZINE ETHYL CAPROATE rCHO 
CHI 
CIS-3-HEXEN-I-AL 
Fig. 2-5. Structures of representative terpenoids and other odorants found in some grapes or wines. 
volatiles, especially ethanol, the fusel alcohols, 
ethyl acetate, and acetaldehyde derivatives, are 
produced in all products fermented by yeast 
including wine. The other specific volatiles 
and their ratios that distinguish grape wines 
from other beverages and varietal wines from 
each other obviously depend on grape con­
stituents. The lists of such compounds are very 
long (Nykanen and Suomalainen 1983). 
As far as sinks for photosynthetic carbon, 
the specific grape aroma compounds are not 
very significant since their amounts individu­
ally and collectively are small. Nevertheless 
they can be crucial to varietal distinctiveness 
and wine quality. Even some of the fermenta­
tion products can reflect grape composition 
indirectly. For example, fusel alcohols can be 
affected by the nitrogen nutrient status. Excess 
of an amino acid results in its conversion to 
the fusel-type alcohol resulting from decar-boxylation and deamination. Conversely, in 
the process of synthesizing its own amino acids 
the yeast may make excess of a carbon skele­
ton from grape sugar. This skeleton can be 
converted to an alcohol depending upon the 
yeast's nitrogen nutrient status, oxidation-re­
duction conditions, and other factors. 
Biosynthesis of these aroma compounds is 
ordinarily fairly late in ripening. Although new 
enzymes may be required, some of the aroma 
compounds appear to be degradation prod­
ucts. They generally reach maximum as sugar 
accumulation slows and before senescence sets 
in (Deibner, Mourgues, and Cabibel-Hughes 
1965). This is the basis of the known high 
attractiveness of fruit fully ripened on the vine. 
Birds recognize it as well as we do and some­
times appear to descend en masse on the 
vineyard just as we are preparing to harvest. It 
seems nature's way of encouraging seed dis-persal. Since these products are volatile and 
can be smelled around the ripe fruit, they are 
being lost. This is thought to be one reason 
varietal aromas tend to be stronger in fruit 
ripened in a cooler area. 
Not all the odorants are highest at the 
ripest stage. The clearest example is the pyra­
zine family. They are ordinarily maximum at 
veraison, decreasing both in concentration and 
amount per berry from perhaps 30 to 1 ng/L 
or less in warmer vineyards in unshaded fruit 
(Lacey et al. 1991). Destruction of the odorant 
forms by light is a factor. This particular flavor 
can be too strong, but some is a part of distin­
guishable varietal character. The sensory 
thresholds are of the order of 2 ng/L. A small 
portion of a Cabernet or Sauvignon blanc 
vineyard could be managed to give shaded 
fruit while the majority was exposed to light. 
The wines made separately would allow the 
wine maker to adjust the final style by judicious 
blending. From the above data, inclusion of 
late-ripening second-crop fruit could affect this 
herbaceous character greatly in the wine. 
The aroma compounds and their ratios are 
so varied and present in such small amounts 
that further useful generalizations are difficult. 
One approach has been to determine the total 
volatile material. Egorov et al. (1978) found 
the total volatile oils including alcohols, esters, 
and terpenes increased in the last month of 
ripening from 44 mg/kg to 70 mg/kg for 
Riesling and from 59 to 117 mg/kg for Caber­
net. Ester increases were, respectively, 18 to 
22, and 27 to 62 mg/kg. The designation 
volatile and potential contributions to odor in 
this work might be questioned since, for ex­
ample, ethyllinoleate was included, but the 
trend and amounts are illustrative. 
J. Miscellaneous Compounds, Vitamins 
The study of grapes and wine in a practical 
way goes back at least 5000 years and a great 
deal of know-how developed even if the know­
why was weak. In the development of 
modern-type scientific research by Pasteur and 
others before and after 1856, wine, grapes, 
and fermentation were foremost among or-Viticulture for Winemakers 51 
ganic, biochemical, and microbiological sys­
tems studied. One might incorrectly assume 
that following this early and intense research, 
everything is known about grape composition 
and how it is modified in winemaking. There 
is great variability among varieties and large 
differences wrought by development and vine­
yard conditions as we have pointed out. How­
ever, one can be confident that no major 
portion of the substance of grapes or wine is 
unknown. Nevertheless important new facts 
are regularly brought to light. 
In order to establish a rational base and 
contribute most usefully to winemakers, we 
have done our best to categorize and system­
atize the topic rather than clutter it up with 
excessive detail. Discovery continues of further 
new compounds in the categories discussed 
above and of new compounds not easily fitting 
these categories. The ones of most interest are 
those found to have some specific function or 
role and not just one more identified com­
pound. Some compounds, even those present 
in small amount, can prove to have vital ac­
tions once they are discovered. 
Glutathione, a tripeptide with unusual link­
age, is the major soluble compound of grape 
juice bearing a free sulfhydryl group. Since 
glutathione occurs in most living things, it was 
to be expected in grapes, but it was not identi­
fied until shown to be part of an oxidation 
product in musts (Singleton et al. 1985). Other 
sulfhydryl compounds, including cysteine and 
even hydrogen sulfide, also react with quinones 
to form thio ethers and regenerate the color­
less ortho-dihydroxyphenol (Singleton 1987). 
Glutathione has important roles in other bio­
chemical systems and should be important in 
grapes in addition to must-browning inhibi­
tion. The amount present in grape leaves is 
considerably higher than in fruit (Adams and 
Liyanage 1991). The level in berries was some­
what variable by variety, 17 to 114 mg/kg with 
an average of 44 mg/kg in 34 varieties 
(Cheynier et al. 1989). 
Another cogent example is the discovery 
that putresine rises 20-fold or more in grape 
leaves, whereas spermidine does not rise when 52 Viticulture for Winemakers 
potassium is deficient (Adams et al. 1990). The 
levels are small, about 40 mg/kg for putresine 
and 90 mg/kg for spermidine in leaves with 
normal potassium and about half that in ripe 
fruit flesh. Further research with these 
polyamines and similar work with other trace 
components should lead to deeper under­
standing of grape biochemistry and 
metabolism, which, in turn, should enable im­
proved farming and winemaking. 
Vitamins are biochemically important com­
pounds over and above their role in human 
nutrition. Fat-soluble vitamins and their pre­
cursors, with the exception of E in grape seed 
oil, are low to absent in grapes or wines. The 
water-soluble B vitamins generally occur but 
not at levels sufficient to make these sources 
especially attractive nutritionally in the human 
diet. Thiamine is low in stored or S02-treated 
juices or wine. 
Ascorbic acid, vitamin C, is typically present 
at about 100 mg/kg in fresh grapes. This level 
is about 1/10 that of citrus fruit, but can be 
important in processing. More may be added 
to wine later, but for antioxidant not nutri­
tional reasons. In the course of normal pro­
cessing of grapes, especially if phenolase (PPO) 
has not been inhibited by sulfur dioxide, most 
of the ascorbic acid is likely to have been 
removed by oxidation. As long as it is present 
in excess, oxidative browning is minimized or 
prevented. 
G. SELECTION OF STATE OF 
RIPENESS FOR HARVEST 
AND HARVESTING 
1. General 
The culmination of the vintage is sealed at the 
moment of harvest, at least so far as viticulture 
is concerned. Harvesting is the irrevocable step 
linking enology and viticulture. The wine­
maker and the grapegrowers must closely co­
operate in selecting the time to harvest each 
variety in each vineyard as near as possible to 
its optimum stage under the prevailing cir-cumstances. Another good recent reference to 
this topic is by Hamilton and Coombe (I992). 
In commercial-scale operations the decision 
to harvest is not only affected by the grape 
composition that is expected to give maximum 
wine quality. In most wineries the vintage pe­
riod is rather hectic. Logistics and capacities 
may force compromises. A large uniform vine­
yard cannot be harvested instantaneously and 
depending on crew size or the machinery 
available may take several days. Transport and 
reception equipment may be limited. Vine­
yards expected to ripen differently may be 
ready simultaneously. If the weather is hot, it is 
important to harvest promptly before acid is 
too low or shriveling becomes a problem. If 
weather promises to be sunny and cool, wait­
ing can be tolerated; if rainstorms or heavy 
frosts loom, under-ripeness may be chosen. If 
grapes or wines are accepted that have a com­
positional deficiency the harvest of other vine­
yards may be adjusted so that blending may 
compensate. 
There are two extremes of fruit sampling 
techniques that it may be useful to outline. 
They may be termed general versus intensive or 
commercial versus research. The general or com­
mercial would be those tests intended to select 
the moment to start full harvest in a given 
vineyard. They would be the minimum effec­
tive procedure; the pressures of the season 
mitigate against tedious, detailed testing. Nev­
ertheless, if they are inadequate or slapdash, 
wine quality will likely suffer. At the other 
extreme, very detailed and more carefully con­
trolled sampling during the latter stages of 
ripening plus more detailed analyses can be 
applied. The work involved may make the 
value retrospective, i.e., the optimum harvest 
may be past in the vineyard sampled before 
the results are available. These research-type 
analyses are the basis of much of the data 
already cited upon the detailed changes of 
grape components during ripening. As new 
relationships are investigated, such studies 
must continue. They can be very useful to 
commercial wineries and vineyards to deter­
mine details of ripening with their clones in their locations. The results can be guides for 
future harvests and, as specific tests are found 
to be important and simplified they may be­
come useful as harvesting criteria in current 
vintage seasons. Requirements for adequate 
sampling can be rather different if small re­
search plots are being tested compared to 
whole vineyards for harvesting decisions, see 
further discussion under sampling grapes. 
2. Criteria for the Time to Harvest 
a. Date 
The date of previous harvests can be some 
guide to when the grapes should be ready to 
pick. If data are available for each variety in 
each vineyard and the weather of the area is 
relatively uniform year to year, the estimate 
will be closer. However, such dates alone 
should never be relied upon exclusively. Field 
sampling should begin about four weeks be­
fore the probable date of harvest to obtain 
compositional data so that the final changes 
can be monitored and harvesting date ad­
justed for the current season. Sampling should 
continue about every five to seven days, more 
often if the weather is hot, so that the rates 
of change and optima can be followed. 
Mean Brix rise of 0.5 to 1.0 Brix per week 
(more in hot sunny weather) is fairly typical in 
California. 
It is assumed that for most wine grape vine­
yards there will be a single harvest. This is 
mandatory for mechanical harvesting and less 
costly for manual harvesting. Selective harvest­
ing by passing over the same vines more than 
once is not usually practiced, although selec­
tively leaving unharvested second crop or 
damaged clusters often is. The focus here is to 
choose the timing of the single harvest to the 
best advantage. For specific, high-cost wines, 
Sauternes for example, there may be several 
pickings in the same vineyard to get the de­
sired effect, botrytization and shriveling in this 
example. More commonly, it is possible to 
pick portions of the same monovarietal vine­
yard differently for different product objec-Viticulture fur Winemakers 53 
tives such as sparkling wine base, dry table, 
sweet table, and fortified dessert wines. 
b. Sugar 
Sugar is by far the greatest part of the carbon 
substance and dry weight of ripening grapes. 
Ripening is fundamentally defined as the ac­
cumulation of sugar. A juice at 22 Brix is 
considered to be from riper grapes than one 
at 20 Brix. Sugar accumulation in V. vinifera 
grapes levels off and appears to cease at about 
25 to 26 Brix (Singleton et al. 1966a). Sugar 
per berry does not rise further but sugar per 
kg fresh weight will if berries shrivel. It follows 
that sugar content and its change must be 
considered when deciding to harvest grapes. It 
is a convenient measure because dissolved 
solids (sugars being predominant) can be 
readily estimated by hydrometry (with mini­
mum juice sample volumes of the order of 100 
m!) or refractometry (even one berry). Unlike 
some other criteria such as anthocyanins, sugar 
is easily evaluated in the juice. Sugar alone, 
however, is not a fully adequate criterion for 
harvesting wine grapes. The acceptable sugar 
level will vary with the wine type to be made 
and the immediate prospects for further 
changes. In a hot, early-ripening season har­
vesting should start at the lower end of the 
Brix range in order to preserve desirable acid. 
In cool, late-ripening years it may be desirable 
to wait for the higher end of the preferred 
Brix range in order that acidity will drop as 
much as possible. The latter situation predom­
inates in Northern Europe and the former in 
much of California, Southeastern Australia, 
South Africa, and Southern Europe. Table 2-11 
gives some approximate ranges recommended 
for harvesting grapes for different wines. 
c. Acidity 
Also in Table 2-11 are given general approxi­
mations for titratable acidity and pH. Remem­
ber that low must pH and high acidity would 
be associated with a higher proportion of malic 
acid. After a malolactic fermentation, wine 
from a high malic acid must drops most in 54 Viticulture for Winemakers 
Table 2-11. General recommendations for must composition at harvest for various wine types. 
Type of wine Brix 
Sparkling base 18.0-20.0 
White table 19.5-23.0 
Red table 20.5-23.5 
Sweet table 22.0-25.0 
Dessert 23.0-26.0 
acidity and rises most in pH. Precipitation of 
potassium bitartrate lowers titratable acid. Un­
usually high-potassium musts can have both 
high titratable acid and high pH. 
Acidity tends to move oppositely, going 
down (pH rising) as sugar rises. For this reason 
and because of acidity's effects on flavor and 
processing, it is considered the essential mini­
mum to combine some measure of acidity with 
sugar content when deciding whether it is 
time to harvest a given group of vines for wine. 
d. Weight 
Although seldom included in picking esti­
mates, the average berry volume or weight can 
be a useful criterion and one that is not dif­
ficult to obtain or to understand. Berry weight 
increases during ripening but levels off at mat­
uration and with dehydration (termed overmat­
uration by some) will decrease. If a sequence of 
representative samples is taken, full matura­
tion by size, the initiation and extent of shriv­
eling, and the effects of ill-timed rain or irriga­
tion can be noted. Furthermore, if berry size is 
typical for the variety but Brix low, overcrop­
ping is doubly indicated (Singleton et al. 1973). 
e. Other Criteria for Ripeness to Harvest 
Anthocyanin content and total phenol content 
are of interest, but require more equipment 
and laboratory expertise to analyze than may 
be quickly available during vintage. Further­
more, inadequate color or tannin is not read­
ily improved by a small shift in the harvest 
date. Similarly, varietal aroma and general 
fruitiness can be very important, but difficult 
to measure and tend to be lost rather than 
improved by overmaturation. Volatile and Titratable acidity 
(g tartaric/L) pH 
7.0-9.0 2.8-3.2 
7.0-8.0 3.0-3.3 
6.5-7.5 3.2-3.4 
6.5-8.0 3.2-3.4 
5.0-7.5 3.3-3.7 
bound terpenes in Muscat grapes may prove 
to be an exception, but more detailed analyses 
have not been very useful for timing commer­
cial harvesting. Berry tasting can substitute to 
a degree for volatile flavor analysis by physico­
chemical means. 
In a review of data on the optimum grape 
maturity in relation to wine quality Du Plessis 
(1984) considered aroma compounds, polysac­
charides, pH, potassium, phenolics, nitroge­
nous compounds, turbidity and insoluble 
solids, other physical aspects, and Botrytis 
cinerea, as well as sugar and acidity. Picking at 
the proper maturity was often as important to 
quality or more so than climate, soil, viticul­
tural practices, and winemaking methods. 
Short of more research involving more param­
eters studied at once and correlated statisti­
cally, no obvious improvement over proper 
sugar-acid measurements was apparent. 
Sugar-acid relationships have been used with a 
good deal of success, especially in warmer 
areas. 
Barron and Santa-Maria (1990) were able to 
explain 87% of the variance over all samples 
during the latter stages of ripening of a white 
and a red variety via factor analyses with the 
first three factors. Factor I was considered an 
energy reserve factor and correlated with total 
lipid content and the major triglycerides. Fac­
tor II, considered a secondary metabolism fac­
tor, correlated with phenols, sugar X weight, 
tartaric/malic ratio, and triolein content. Fac­
tor III, considered the primary metabolism or 
physiological maturity indicator, had high cor­
relations with sugar/acidity, glucose/fructose 
ratios and sugars X weight. These factors have 
not yet been reduced to easy application, but factors II and III encompass the usual ripeness 
indices used commercially. 
Another factor that may need consideration 
is mold and bunch rot incidence and likely 
progression. The conditions leading to inclu­
sion of more or less materials other than grapes 
(MOG) in a harvest are not usually but may be 
related to ripeness (leaf dryness, juice sticki­
ness, etc.). 
f. Ripeness Indices for Field Use 
Various methods have been tried to combine 
measurements into a single index for timing 
the harvest to get the best quality of must (Du 
Plessis 1984). For simple commercial use one 
would recommend some combination of sugar 
and acidity measurement coupled with more 
subjective estimation of flavor, color, health, 
and general prognosis. In spite of myths to the 
contrary, no one can accurately estimate sugar 
and acidity of grapes by taste, but thoughtful 
examination and tasting preferably by a small 
panel including the winemaker and the grower 
can give some perspective on varietal aroma, 
color, balance, and potential good and bad 
features of a particular harvest. These will sup­
plement normal sugar and acid analyses and 
perhaps alert one to the need for additional 
analyses in a given case if time and facilities 
permit. Mter several vintages from a given 
variety in a given area, experience will lend 
validity to the more subjective estimates, if 
they can be backed up with good harvest and 
wine quality data. 
The range in Brix/acid ratio values reflects 
mainly the acidity, presuming sugars in the 18 
to 26 Brix range but acids in the range of 4 to 
9 giL as tartaric acid, and therefore BI A 2.0 
to 6.5 with perhaps 3.1 ideal. If blindly ap­
plied, this index can be met by deficient 
grapes. For example, an overcropped late har­
vest may be so deficient in sugar and acid that 
it has a proper ratio but cannot make accept­
able wine. For such reasons it is recommended 
that the best combination of components be 
sought by the winemaker by considering each 
aspect rather than combining them into a 
single value. Nevertheless, such indices can Viticulture for Winemakers 55 
provide perspective and furnish useful speci­
fications for grapegrowers. Tabulation of 
ranges considered acceptable for 52 varieties 
and all regions for Brix and acidity established 
commercial grades for California wine grapes 
(Berg 1960). 
For dry table wines Brix X pH2 was better 
as a quality predictor at harvest than 
Brixl Acid, Brix X Acid, and Brix X pH 
(Coombe et al. 1980). The use of the pH value 
gives consideration to the high-potassium, 
high-pH, high-acid possibility. It also relates to 
the fact that pH has more influence than does 
titratable acid on fermentation and processing 
reactions. The range of Brix x pH2 considered 
optimal was roughly 200 to 270 (35% range) 
when the same data gave a Brixl Acid of only 
2.8 to 3.2 (14% range). Thus, Brix X pH2 
gave a relatively wider and more integral range 
for comparisons. 
Van Rooyen et al. (1984) showed that Brix 
X pH was better than Brix alone or B I A in 
predicting grape maturity relationships to table 
wine quality in Pinotage or Cabernet Sauvi­
gnon. It gave a narrower optimum range and 
in contrast to the other two gave similar results 
with both cultivars. A value of about 85 to 95 
was satisfactory for both. Principal component 
analysis showed in the same wines that aroma 
components separated by gas chromatography 
distinguished the two varieties from each other 
but gave inconclusive results within a variety in 
predicting wine quality. With Chenin blanc 
and Colombard it was not possible to select a 
specific index for optimum maturity to predict 
wine quality in all cases. Optimum values for 
each index including Brix X pH differed ac­
cording to geographic locality (Ellis et al. 
1985). Phenol analysis was shown to be unim­
portant to the quality of these white wines by 
principal component analysis. 
3. Sampling Grapes 
In the context being discussed, a sample of 
grapes is desired for analysis so that the 
progress of ripening can be evaluated and 
plans made to harvest the vineyard at the 56 Viticulture for Winemakers 
optimum stage. In this situation relatively few 
grapes must represent the whole vineyard. In 
research plots the problem may be simpler 
since the number of vines per plot is limited, 
the vines within a plot should be uniform, and 
the plots are replicated according to a statisti­
cally governed plan. The research sampling 
must include proportionately each replication 
plot of every treatment. Furthermore, the in­
dividual samples must be sufficiently large to 
provide the tissue needed and to allow for 
extraneous variation within plots not part of 
the experiment. The within-plot and between 
replicate plot extraneous variation and the 
variation caused by treatment may be different 
depending upon what is being measured. The 
sample size must be larger if the extraneous 
variation is larger and a given degree of treat­
ment difference is sought with a high degree 
of confidence. In plot research, but ordinarily 
not in field sampling, you also may need to 
consider the depletion of fruit by sampling 
and the effect on following samples of removal 
of earlier ones. 
To obtain a sample representing a vineyard 
population the whole vineyard must be sam­
pled. End vines and, unless they make up a 
sizable portion of the whole, perimeter rows 
should be omitted as should vines adjacent to 
spots with missing vines or under trees, etc. If 
the vineyard is large or has topographically or 
otherwise distinctly different sections, appro­
priate subsections should be specifically sam­
pled. Even if relatively uniform, a large vine­
yard being managed as a unit should be di­
vided into approximately 2-ha portions for 
careful subsampling. This will provide addi­
tional replication and will indicate which por­
tion should be harvested first. 
A systematic method of ensuring full vine­
yard section coverage should be followed in 
selecting the grapes for the sample to be ana­
lyzed. A common and satisfactory method is to 
walk along alternate balks (spaces between vine 
rows) and take a grape sample every 10th (or 
other appropriate number) vine, alternating 
right or left. It is generally recommended that 
the fruit selected should be as random as possible, but from all areas such as high or low 
on the vine on its sunny and shady sides in 
approximate proportion to their yield. How­
ever, if sufficient numbers of vines are sam­
pled, grab sampling may be as effective as 
randomized sampling for cluster weight, Brix, 
and acid (Rankine et al. 1962). 
Comparing random selection of 100 to 200 
berries from a large number of vines, random 
selection of 10 to 20 clusters from a smaller 
number of vines, and complete harvest of a 
few vines, Roessler and Amerine (I958) found 
the variance to be greatest among means of 
single vine samples, less among cluster sam­
ples, and least among the berry samples (Table 
2-12.). From these data, 95% of the time you 
should miss the population mean not more 
than twice the standard deviation by using the 
sample means for the sampling indicated. For 
example, to come within 0.78 Brix of the 
population mean Brix, you would average two 
IOO-berry samples, four IO-cluster samples, and 
11 whole vine samples. Application of these 
sampling methods to 10 varieties again showed 
the lowest standard error for IOO-berry com­
pared to IO-cluster or single vine samples. In 
Table 2-12. Approximate equivalent numbers of lots 
for equal reliability. 
Standard 
Error 
of Means 
0.39 
0.32 
0.28 
0.25 
0.28 
0.23 0.20 
1.18 
0.028 
0.023 
0.020 0.018 100 
Berries 
2 
3 
4 
5 
2 
3 
4 
5 
2 
3 
4 
5 Number of Lots of 
10 
Clusters 
Brix 
4 
5 
7 
9 
Total Acid 
(giL as tartaric) 
4 
6 
8 
10 
pH 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Source of data: Roessler and Amerine (1958). Vines 
11 
17 
22 
27 
8 
10 
14 
18 
8 
10 
14 
18 the seven cases where the whole winery har­
vest was compared, berry sample Brix agreed 
within 0.5, acid within 0.5 giL, and pH within 
0.17 of the winery value (Roessler and Amer­
ine 1963). 
The most effective sampling is to take a 
minimum amount of grapes from a large 
number of vines (Rankine et al. 1962). Irri­
gated vines were more variable than nonirri­
gated at least up to 20 Brix. Mean sugar con­
tent per vine was inversely proportional and 
acid content directly proportional to yield. 
With Concord grapes also (Wolpert et al. 1980), 
vines contributed an average of 60% of the 
variance in cluster weight, soluble solids, and 
acidity. Exposure and cluster position along 
the shoot together contributed most of the 
rest of the variance with only about 7% unex­
plained. Kasimatis and Vilas (1985) found berry 
samples did not as easily represent the true 
Brix of a population as did adequate cluster 
sampling, at least in part because outer ex­
posed berries tended to be higher in Brix than 
the rest of the cluster. Particularly with tight 
clusters, inclusion of berries or cluster sections 
from all parts of the clusters in approximate 
proportions can be recommended. Sample 
variance in Brix measurement dropped rapidly 
as berries per sample increased to about 70 
but little thereafter. 
Another point that needs to be made is that 
the method of converting the fruit sample into 
the juice to be analyzed affects the results. In 
measuring ripeness to decide when to harvest, 
an objective is to predict the Brix and acid 
that the whole crushed harvest would have in 
the winery. If one is using a hand refractome­
ter and squeezes each berry on the prism for 
measurement, two systematic errors are likely 
to be present. First, the outer berry which has 
been chosen is likely to be higher in Brix as 
just noted. Second, the first few drops of juice 
come from the softest pulp tissue highest in 
Brix. In our experience an average of such 
values is likely to be nearly 1 Brix higher than 
the whole harvest even on a small plot. Fur­
thermore blending the whole tissue compared Viticulture for Winemakers 57 
to expressed juice leads to 0.2 to 0.3 higher 
pH (Carter et al. 1972). The best approach 
seems to be processing the collected berry or 
destemmed cluster sample into juice via an 
auger or lever press in small amounts so that 
the pomace is free of releasable juice to about 
the same degree as the winery pomace. Since 
red wines are fermented on the pomace,juice 
from blender-processed berries gave pH and 
acidity more nearly corresponding to that of 
the fermented wines according to Carter et al. 
(1972). This may be illusory, however, because 
grinding the seeds and other tissues changes 
the acidity, pH, and buffer capacity in ways 
different from the mechanisms during fer­
mentation (Ough and Amerine 1988). 
4. Population Distribution Effects 
The grapes of a monovarietal vineyard repre­
sent a population at anyone instant up to and 
including harvest that contains a more or less 
wide range of anyone characteristic. Obtain­
ing a representative sample is truly successful 
only if the sample has the same variability and 
the same proportions of individual berries with 
different characteristics. We tend to assume 
that two vineyards or two vintages giving the 
same must analysis at harvest should give the 
same wine. This can be far from the truth 
even without differences arising from process­
ing. The simplest example is that the weighted 
average Brix, that in the must tank, can re­
main the same with very different population 
distributions. If the winery must was 22.0 Brix, 
it might be composed of a narrow distribution 
with few berries at 20 Brix or below and few at 
23 Brix or higher. It might be a wide distribu­
tion with berries below 18 and above 24 Brix, 
and it could be the result of two overlapping 
populations with their own means peaking at, 
perhaps, 18.0 and 24.0 Brix. Clearly the wines 
from these three situations would be unlikely 
to be similar in acidity or any other variable 
characteristic except for alcohol content. 
Populations of grapes can be characterized 
by Brix without destruction by their distribu-58 Viticulture for Winemakers 
tion in a series of flotation baths of decreasing 
density (Singleton et al. 1966a, 1973). Since 
the ripening grape has no air space within its 
flesh and the seeds and skins are more dense 
than juice, the juice Brix of a grape is a little 
lower than that of a sugar solution in which it 
hovers without floating or sinking. Using 
flotation solutions 1 Brix apart and comparing 
the juice Brix with the mean of the two solu­
tions in which it just sank or floated, the 
regression equation averaged for six white 
seeded varieties was: Juice Brix = 0.98(flota­
tion Brix minus 0.86). Perfect correlation 
would equal 1.0 rather than 0.98 and inter­
cepts varied from -0.6 to -1.6 depending on 
variety. Berry weight and pH varied as ex­
pected with Brix over the ripening (increasing 
juice Brix) sequence. 
This technique is a bit tedious for everyday 
use in monitoring ripening, but it deserves 
more use than it has had because it can pro­
vide three kinds of information not readily 
obtainable any other way. It can characterize a 
ripe harvest population for comparison with 
others. It can give a ripeness sequence free 
from weather influences. All Brix categories 
from 14 to 25 Brix or perhaps wider can be 
obtained at one sampling and these subsam­
pIes analyzed to determine trends in any other 
component related to that ripeness (Brix). For 
example this approach was very useful in mon­
itoring caftaric acid changes during the last 
stages of ripening (Singleton, Zaya, and Trous­
dale 1986b). Third, such segregation of whole 
berries by Brix can provide a restricted Brix 
fraction that can be analyzed in detail to char­
acterize vineyard or vintage differences freed 
of ripeness and population diversity differ­
ences. For V. rotundifolia berries that develop 
an abscission layer and are harvested as single 
berries, density segregation has been shown to 
have potential to remove under-ripe and 
lesser-quality grapes from commercial harvests 
(Lanier and Morris 1979). Finally, density seg­
regation can be useful in demonstrating over­
cropping and the shift from physiological pro­
duction to increase of sugar by shriveling. If one determines the Brix of each berry in 
a fairly ripe cluster, berries are usually found 
covering nearly the whole range of ripeness. 
They are not very systematically arranged, with 
various degrees of ripeness distributed rather 
randomly over the cluster. This is one reason 
that picking one berry at random from each of 
100 vines is so successful at estimating the 
population Brix mean for those vines. It is 
similar with berry weight, which, not counting 
shot berries, may range from about 0.5 to 2.5 
gjberry in the same cluster depending on 
variety. One would expect that, as a normal 
ripeness progression, the increased Brix would 
be associated with increased berry weight. 
If the berries all had the same number of 
seeds this should be true. However, berries 
without seeds are both a good deal smaller 
and earlier-ripening than those with one seed 
on the same vines. The differences between 
one-seeded berries and those with two, three, 
and finally four seeds are in the same direc­
tion; more seeds give a larger berry accumulat­
ing a given Brix more slowly and usually re­
taining acid longer. As an example, Peynaud 
(I984) lists a Malbec progression from one­
seeded at 1.9 gjberry, 18.8 Brix, and 6.7 gjL 
acid to four-seeded at 3.2 gjberry, 14.5 Brix, 
and 8.0 gjL acid. In a density distribution, the 
highest Brix berries are either un seeded 
berries, shriveled ones, or a combination of 
the two. In both cases they are smaller in 
weight. 
Part of the reason berries in the same clus­
ter are not at the same ripeness could be their 
different time of blooming, and this differ­
ence would be larger between clusters and 
larger yet between vines. The number of seeds 
formed is seen to be another important vari­
able and will spread the population further. 
The number of seeds per berry and the 
amount of flesh per seed varies by variety 
although the average seeds per berry is often 
between one and two for wine grapes, with 
four being maximum. Further data appears 
needed on the population distributions of 
these factors by variety and season correlated 
with wine quality. 5. Harvesting Practices 
Once the time is chosen and assuming a single 
harvest there are two primary objectives: get­
ting the grapes picked as completely and ex­
peditiously as possible and getting them to the 
winery in as near perfect condition as possible. 
The main choice is between manual and ma­
chine harvesting. Manual harvesting can (but 
may not) be more selective and thorough, less 
damaging to the vineyard, and less damaging 
to the grapes. It is adaptable to vineyards too 
hilly or otherwise unsuitable for machine har­
vests. Machine harvesting is faster, more eco­
nomical, less prone to error or skipping, and 
can more easily work at night giving the ad­
vantages of cooler grapes at the winery. Prop­
erly operated, modern machines give good 
recovery, sometimes better than harvesting by 
hand. The fraction of grapes for wine or juice 
harvested by machine has steadily grown since 
1969 when an estimated 40% of New York's 
grapes and 10% of California's were so har­
vested. By 1980, California had reached an 
estimated 25% and currently it is probably 
35% overall with as much as 75% in the areas 
producing grapes for less expensive wines. Al­
though machine usage is more limited in areas 
noted for premium wines, it is still apprecia­
ble, probably 10 to 15% of the tonnage. The 
use for premium grapes is generally accept­
able from a processing viewpoint but more 
restricted because of such factors as small plots 
and rough terrain. 
Chardonnay harvested in a premium area 
by two types of machine harvesters and by 
hand gave no significant difference in the 
quantity of fruit delivered or the eventual wine 
quality (Clary et al. 1990). Although a taste 
panel could differentiate the manual harvest 
from the mechanical harvests (but not the two 
mechanical harvests from each other) there 
was no significant difference in preference. 
The must was 22.2 Brix from the machine and 
22.6 Brix by hand because of a greater level of 
second crop in the mechanically harvested. 
For the same reason, the total acid and malic 
acid were higher in the machine-harvested Viticulture for Winemakers 59 
must about 0.5 giL each. In these valuable 
grapes ($ 11 64/Tm), 6 to 8% juice loss by 
mechanical harvesting plus extra costs for re­
pairing trellis and sprinkler damage made the 
return to the winery slightly greater for hand 
harvesting, even though the actual cost of hand 
harvesting was $121/Tm versus $55/Tm by 
machine. 
In the same paper (Clary et al. 1990) the 
previous literature was outlined. The results of 
many studies on mechanical harvesting are 
rather consistent. Most of the grapes are re­
moved as berries leaving the stem (rachis) on 
the vine. Raisined berries and those early sun­
burned are mostly left attached to the vines as 
are lightweight rotten clusters. Second crop 
and clusters still heavy but with bunch rot are 
usually harvested. Proper use of blowers re­
moves leaves and light detritus from the grapes 
and they may be as clean or cleaner (less 
MOG) than piecework manual harvests. Since 
many cluster stems are left on the vine, the 
stem content was half or less of that from hand 
harvests and fewer bits got through the 
crusher. Typically, the machines miss or lose 
on the ground fewer berries than do hand 
harvesters, but lose more juice. 
The key differences from mechanical har­
vesting relating to wine quality have to do with 
the handling and time between harvest and 
winery processing. With hand harvesting the 
desired standard has been getting the grapes 
to the winery with no berry breakage. Depend­
ing on the handling, the roughness of trans­
port, the depth of the load, and the distance 
to the winery this may not be achieved even 
with manual harvesting. Depending on the 
strength of the berry attachment and the skin 
more or less damage will occur-variable by 
variety and conditions. With mechanical har­
vesting some damage is inevitable as the pedi­
cel brush is jerked from most of the berries. A 
portion of the berry is exposed to oxidation 
and microbial attack. Various ways of minimiz­
ing detrimental effects have been applied, but 
if times and distances are short enough wine 
quality need not suffer. 60 Viticulture for Winemakers 
Machine-harvested wine grapes in Califor­
nia almost invariably receive metabisulfite in 
the field. In some cases the mechanically har­
vested fruit is received directly into a mobile 
tank that has been precharged with sulfur 
dioxide or sulfite salts and with carbon dioxide 
to displace the air. The grapes may be passed 
through a destemmer-crusher mounted on this 
tank vehicle. The sulfur dioxide inhibits phe­
nol oxidase and undesirable microbes and the 
air exclusion also helps prevent oxidation. 
Upon arrival at the winery the whole crushed 
grape mass may be pumped to further process­
ing with perhaps even less exposure to delete­
rious effects than would have been the case 
from manual harvesting. The total time of 
maceration contact between the pomace and 
the juice would be the remaining considera­
tion and this will be addressed in later 
sections. 
H. REFERENCES 
ADAMS, D.O., K. E. FRANKE, and L. P. CHRISTENSEN. 
1990. "Elevated putrescine levels in grapevine 
leaves that display symptoms of potassium defi­
ciency." Am.J.Enol. Vitic. 41:121-125. 
ADAMS, D.O., and C. LIYANAGE. 1991. "Modification 
of an enzymatic glutathione assay for determina­
tion of total glutathione in grapevine tissues." 
Am.J.Enol. Vitie. 42:137-140. 
ALTMAN, H. (Ed.). 1987. Weinbau. Vienna: Oster­
reichischer Agrarverlag. 
AMERINE, M. A., and A.J. WINKLER. 1944. "Composi­
tion and quality of musts and wines of California 
grapes." Hilgardia 15:493-676. 
AMERINE, M. A., and A. J. WINKLER. 1963a. "Cali­
fornia wine grapes: Composition and quality of 
their musts and wines." Calif. Agric. Exp. Stn. 
Bull. 794. Berkeley, CA: University of California, 
Division of Agricultural Sciences. 
AMERINE, M. A., and A. J. WINKLER. 1963b. "Grape 
varieties for wine production." Calif. Agric. Expt. 
Stn. Leaflet 154. Berkeley, CA: University of Cali­
fornia, Division of Agricultural Sciences. 
BARRON, L. J. R., M. V. CELAA, and G. SANTA-MARlA. 
1989. "Triacylglycerol changes in grapes in late 
stages ofripening." Phytochemistry 28:3301- 3305. BARRON, L. J. R., and G. SANTA-MARlA. 1990. "A 
relationship between triglycerides and grape­
ripening indices." Food Chem. 37:37-45. 
BERG, H. W. 1960. Grade Classification fly Total Soluble 
Solids and Total Acidity, pp. 53. San Francisco, 
CA: Wine Institute. 
BOWEN, J. F., D. R. MACGREGOR, and D. V. FISHER. 
1972. "Wine grape varieties for British 
Columbia." Can. Inst. Food Sci. Technol. J. 
5:44-49. 
CANTAGREL, R., P. SYMONDS, and J. CARLES. 1982. 
"Composition on acides amines du mout en 
fonction du cepage et de la technologie et son 
influence sur la qualite du vin." Sci. Aliment 2 
(Num. hors Ser. 1):109-142. 
CARTER, G. H., C. W. NAGEL, and W. J. CLORE. 1972. 
"Grape sample preparation methods representa­
tive of must and wine analysis." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
23:10-13. 
CHAMPAGNOL, F. 1984. Elements de Physiologie de la 
Vigne et de Viticulture Generale. Saint-Gely-du-Fesc, 
France: Francois Champagnol. 
CHEYNIER, V., J. M. SOUQUET, and M. MOUTOUNET. 
1989. "Glutathione content and glutathione to 
hydroxy-cinnamic acid ratio in Vitis vinifera 
grapes and musts." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 40:320-324. 
CLARY, C. D., R. E. STEINHAUER, J. E. FRISINGER, and 
T. E. PEFFER. 1990. "Evaluation of machine vs. 
hand-harvested Chardonnay." Am. J. Enol Vitic. 
41:176-18l. 
COOMBE, B. G. 1988. "Grape phenology." In Viticul­
ture, B. G. Coombe and P. R. Dry, Eds., 
pp. 139-153. Adelaide: Australian Industrial 
Publishers. 
COOMBE, B. G., and P. R. DRY (Eds.). 1988. Viticul­
ture, Vol. 1, Resources in Australia. Underdale, 
South Australia: Australian Industrial Publishers. 
COOMBE, B. G., R. J. DUNDON, and A. W. S. SHORT. 
1980. "Indices of sugar-acidity as ripeness crite­
ria for winegrapes." J. Sci. Food Agric. 31 :495-502. 
CORDONNIER, R. 1966. "Etude des proteins et des 
substances azotees. Leur evolution au cours des 
traitements oenologiques. Conditions de la sta­
bilite proteique des vins." Bull. Off. Int. Vin 
39:1475-1489. 
CROWTHER, R. F., and O. A. BRADT. 1970. "Evalua­
tion of grape cultivars for production of wine." 
Rept. Hort. Res. Inst. Ontario 121-128. Toronto, 
Canada: Ontario Dept. of Agriculture and Food. CURRLE, 0., O. BAUER, W. HOFACKER, F. SCHUMA:-iN, 
and W. FRISCH. 1983. Biologie der Rebe. Neustadt 
an der Weinstrasse, Germany: D. Meininger Ver­
lag. 
DEIBNER, L., J. MOURGUES, and M. CABIBEL-HcGHES. 
1965. "Evolution de l'indice des substances aro­
matiques volatiles des raisins de deux cepages 
rouges au cours de leur maturation." Ann. Tech­
nolo Agric. 14:5-14. 
Du PLESSIS, C. S. 1984. "Optimum maturity and 
quality parameters in grapes: A review." S. Afr.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 5:35-42. 
DURMISHIDZE, S. V. 1955. Dubil 'nye Veshchestva i An­
totsiany Vinogradnoi Lozi i Vina, pp. 1-323. 
Moscow: Izda. Akad. Nauk. SSSR. 
EGOROV, I. A., A. K. RODOPULO, A. A. BEZZVBOV, A. 
Y. SKRIPNIK, and L. N. NECHAEV. 1978. "Investiga­
tion of the volatile oils in several grape varieties 
during ripening (trans.)." Prikl. Biokhim. Mikro­
bioi. 14:135-139. 
EINSETI, J., and K. H. KIMBALL. 1971. "1969-70 
vineyard and cellar notes." NY State Agric. Expt. 
Stn. SPecial Rept. 4:1-27. Geneva, NY: NY State 
Agric. Expt. Stn. 
ELLIS, L. P., P. C. Vfu'\l ROm'EN, and C. S. Du PLESSIS. 
1985. "Interactions between grape maturity in­
dices and the quality and composition of Chen in 
blanc and Colombar wines from different locali­
ties." S. Afr.]. Enol. Vitic. 6:45-50. 
FERRARO-OLMOS, R. 1983. Viticultura Moderna. Mon­
tevideo, Uruguay: Hemisferio Sur. 
FREGONI, M. 1985. Viticoltura Generale. Rome: Edito­
riale degli Agricolturi. 
GALET, P. 1988. Precis de Viticulture, 5th ed. Montpe­
lier, France: Dehan. 
GALLANDER, J. F., and A. C. PENG. 1980. "Lipid and 
fatty acid compositions of different grape types." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 31:24-27. 
HAMILTON, R. P., and B. G. COOMBE. 1992. 
"Harvesting of winegrapes." In Viticulture, Vol. 2 
Practices, B. G. Coombe and P. R. Dry, Eds., pp. 
302-327 Underdale, South Australia: Winetitles. 
HARRIS, J. M., P. E. KRIEDEMANN, and J. V. POSSING­
HAM. 1968. "Anatomical aspects of grape berry 
development." Vitis 7:lO6-119. 
HEYMANN, H., A. C. NOBLE, and R. B. BOULTON. 
1986. "Analysis of methoxypyrazines in wines. I. 
Development of a quantitative procedure." ]. 
Agric. Food Chem. 34:268-271. Viticulture for Winemakers 61 
HUANG, Z., and C. S. OUGH. 1989. "Effect of vine­
yard locations, varieties and rootstocks on the 
juice amino acid composition of several 
cultivars." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 40:135-139. 
HUGLIN, P. 1986. Biologie et Ecologie de la Vigne. 
Lausanne: Editions Payot. 
INGLEDEW, W. M., C. A. MAGNUS, and F. W. SOSUL­
SKI. 1987. "Influence of oxygen on proline uti­
lization during wine fermentation." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 38:246-248. 
JACKSON, D. I., and N. J. CHERRY. 1988. "Prediction 
of a district's grape-ripening capacity using a 
latitude-temperature index (LTI)." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 39: 19-28. 
jACKSO:\', D., and D. SCHVSTER. 1987. The Production 
of Grapes and Wine in Cool Climates. Wellington: 
Butterworths of New Zealand. 
KADISCH, E. 1986. Weinbau. Stuttgart: Verlag Eugen 
Ulmer. 
KASIMATIS, A. N., B. E. BEARDEN, and K. BOW'ERS. 
1977. "Wine grape varieties in the North Coast 
Counties of California." Divn. Agric. Sci. Univ. 
Calif. Publication 4069, 1-30. Berkeley, CA: Uni­
versity of California, Division of Agricultural Sci­
ences. 
KASIMATIS, A. N., L. P. CHRISTENSEN, D. A. LUVISI, 
and J. L. KISSLER. 1980. "Wine grape varieties in 
the San joaquin Valley." Division of Agric. Sci. 
Univ. Calif. Publication 4009, 1-33. Berkeley, CA: 
University of California, Division of Agricultural 
Sciences. 
KASIMATIS, A. N., and E. P. VILAS. 1985. "Sampling 
for degrees Brix in vineyard plots." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 36:207-213. 
KINSELLA, J. E. 1974. "Grapeseed oil. Rich source of 
linoleic acid." Food Technol. (Chicago) 28:58-60. 
KISSLER, J. J., C. S. OUGH, and C. J. ALLEY. 1973. 
"Evaluations of wine grape varieties for Lodi." 
Univ. Calif. Agric. Exp. Stn. Bull. 865, 1-12. 
Berkeley, CA: University of California, Division 
of Agricultural Sciences. 
KLIEW'ER, W. M. 1965a. "Changes in the concentra­
tions of malates, tartrates, and total free acids in 
flowers and berries of Vitis vinifera." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 16:92-100. 
KLIEViER, W. M. 1965b. "Changes in concentration 
of glucose, fructose, and total soluble solids in 
flowers and berries of Vitis vinifera." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic.16:101-110. 62 Viticulture for Winemakers 
KLIEWER, W. M. 1967. "Annual cyclic changes in the 
concentration offree amino acids in grapevines." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 18:126-137. 
KLIEWER, W. M., and R E. SMART. 1988. "Canopy 
manipulation for optimizing_\1ne microclimate, 
crop yield and composition of grapes," In Ma­
nipulation of Fruiting, C. J. Wright, Ed, pp. 
275-291. London: Butterworths Scientific Ltd. 
LACEY, M. J., M. S. ALLEN, R. L. N. HARRIS, and W. 
V. BROWN. 1991. "Methoxypyrazines in Sauvi­
gnon blanc grapes and wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
42: 1 03-108. 
U'lIER, M. R, and J. R MORRIs. 1979. "Evaluation 
of density separation for defining fruit maturities 
and maturation rates of once-over harvested 
Muscadine grapes." ]. Am. Hort. Soc. 
104:249-252. 
LARREA-REDONDO, A. 1981. Viticultura Basica. 
Barcelona: Editorial Aedos. 
LEA, A. G. H., P. BRIDLE, C. F. TiMBERLAKE, and V. L. 
SINGLETON. 1979. "The procyanidins of white 
grapes and wines." Am.J.Enol. Vitic. 30:289-300. 
MARAIs, J. 1986. "A reproducible capillary gas chro­
matographic technique for the determination of 
specific terpenes in grape juice and wine." S. 
African]. Enol. Vitic. 7:21-25. 
MARAIs, J. 1987. "Terpene concentrations and wine 
quality of Vitis vinifera L. cv. Gewlirztraminer as 
affected by grape maturity and cellar practices." 
Vitis 26:231-245. 
MARAIs, J., and C. J. V~"I WYK. 1986. "Effect of 
grape maturity and juice treatments on terpene 
concentrations and wine quality of Vitis vinifera 
L. cv. Weisser Riesling and Bukettraube." S. 
African]. Enol. Vitic. 7:26-35. 
McINTYRE, G. N., L. A. LIDER, and N. L. FERRARI. 
1982. "The Chronological classification of 
grapevine phenology." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
33:80-85. 
MURPHEY, J. M., S. E. SPAYD, and J. R POWERS. 1989. 
"Effect of grape maturation on soluble protein 
characteristics of Gewlirztraminer and White 
Riesling juice and wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
40:199-207. 
NAGEL, C. W., M. ATALLAH, G. H. CARTER, and W. J. 
CLORE. 1972. "Evaluation of wine grapes grown 
in Washington." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 23:14-17. 
NYKA.:'lEN, L., and H. SUOMALAINE"'. 1983. Aroma of 
Beer, Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverages. Berlin: 
Akademie Verlag. ORFFER, C. J. (Ed.) 1979. Wine Grape Cultivars in 
South Africa. Cape Town South Africa: Human 
and Rousseau. 
OUGH, C. S. 1968. "Proline content of grapes and 
wines." Vitis 7:321-331. 
OUGH, C. S., C. J. ALLEY, D. A. LUVISI, L. P. CHRIS­
TE",SEN, P. B~"JEK, and F. L. JE"'SEN. 1973. 
"Evaluation of wine grape varieties for Madera, 
Fresno, Tulare, and Kern Counties." Univ. Calif. 
Agric. Expt. Stn. Bull. 863, 1-19. Berkeley, CA: 
University of California, Division of Agricultural 
Sciences. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A. AMERI"'E. 1988. Methods for 
Analysis of Musts and Wines. New York: John 
Wiley and Sons. 
OUGH, C. S., and R. M. STASHAK. 1974. "Further 
studies on proline concentration in grapes and 
wines. Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 25:7-12. 
PARK, S. K., J. C. MORRISON, D. O. ADAMS, and A. C. 
NOBLE. 1991. "Distribution offree and glycosidi­
cally bound monoterpenes in the skin and meso­
carp of Muscat of Alexandria grapes during de­
velopment."]' Agric. Food Chem. 39:514-518. 
PARONETTO, L. 1977. Polifenoli e Tecnica Enologica. 
pp. 1-324. Milan: Editioni Agricole Edit. Se­
lepress. 
PENl'\ING-RowSELL, E. 1985. The Wines of Bordeaux, 
5th ed., pp. 562-565. San Francisco, CA: Wine 
Appreciation Guild. 
PEYNAUD, E. 1984. Knowing and Making Wine, pp. 
60-61. New York: John Wiley and Sons. 
PEYNAVD, E., and A. MAURIE. 1953. "Sur l' evolution 
de I'azote dans les differentes parties du raisin 
au cours de la maturation." Ann. Technol. Agric. 
2:15-25. 
PONGRACZ, D. P. 1978. Practical Viticulture. Cape 
Town, South Africa: David Philip. 
PSZCZOLKOWSKI, P., M. 1. QUIROZ, and A. M. SAL­
VATIERRA. 1985. "Efecto de la epoca y numero de 
chapodas en parronales viniferos, sobre la lumi­
nosidad, productividad y cali dad del mosto y 
vino. II. Temporada." Cienc. Invest. Agrar. 
12:37-48. 
RA.,'KIl'\E, B. C., K. M. CELLIER, and E. W. BOEHM. 
1962. "Studies on grape variability and field 
sampling." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 13:53-72. 
RAPP, A. 1988. "Studies on terpene compounds in 
wines." Dev.Food Sci. 17:799-813. REYNIER, A. 1989. Manuel de Viticulture, 5th ed. Paris: 
Lavoisier. 
REYNOLDS, A. G., R. M. POOL, and L. R. MATIICK. 
1986. "Influence of cluster exposure on fruit 
composition and wine quality of Seyval blanc 
grapes." Vitis 25:85-95. 
REYNOLDS, A. G., and D. A. WARDLE. 1989. "In­
fluence of fruit microclimate on monoterpene 
levels of Gewiirztraminer." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
40:149-154. 
ROBINSON, J. 1986. Vines, Grapes and Wines. New 
York: Alfred A. Knopf. 
ROESSLER, E. B., and M. A. AMERINE. 1958. "Studies 
on grape sampling." Am.]. Enol. 9:139-145. 
ROESSLER, E. B., and M. A. AMERINE. 1963. "Further 
studies on grape sampling." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
14:144-147. 
ROUFET, M., C. L. BAYONOVE, and R. E. CORDONNIER. 
1987. "Etude de la composition lipidique du 
raisin, Vitis vinifera L.: Evolution au cours de la 
maturation et localisation dans Ie baie." Vitis 
26:85-97. 
SARACCO, C. 1984. Guida Practica del Viticolture, 2nd 
ed. Bologna, Italy: Edagricole. 
SEFTON, M. A., G. K. SKOUROUMOUNIS, R. A. 
MAsSY-WESTROPP, and P. J. WILLIAMS. 1989. 
"Norisoprenoids in Vitis vinifera white wine 
grapes and the identification of a precursor of 
damascenone in these fruits." Aust.]. Chem. 
42:2071-2084. 
SEGUIN, G. 1986. "'Terroirs' and pedology of vine 
growing." Expenentia 42:861-873. 
SILACCI, M. W., andJ. C. MORRISON. 1990. "Changes 
in pectin content of Cabernet Sauvignon grape 
berries during maturation." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
41:111-115. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1966. "The total phenolic content 
of grape berries during the maturation of several 
varieties." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 17:126-134. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1972. "Effects on red wine quality 
of removing juice before fermentation to simu­
late variation in berry size." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
23:106-113. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1987. "Oxygen with phenols and 
related reactions in musts, wines, and model 
systems: Observations and practical implica­
tions." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:69-77. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1990. "An overview of the integra­
tion of grape, fermentation, and ageing flavours 
in wines." ProC. 7th Wine Industry Tech. Conf., pp. Viticulture for Winemakers 63 
96-106. Adelaide, So. Australia, 13-17 Aug., 
1989. 
SINGLETON, V. L., P. DE WET, and C. S. Du PLESSIS. 
1973. "Characterization of populations of grapes 
harvested for wine and compensation for popu­
lation differences." Agroplantae 5:1-12. 
SINGLETON, V. L., D. E. DRAPER, and J. A. ROSSI, JR. 
1966b. "Paper chromatography of phenolic 
compounds from grapes, particularly seeds, and 
some variety-ripeness relationships." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 17:206-217. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and P. ESAU. 1969. "Phenolic 
substances in grapes and wine and their signifi­
cance." Adv.Food Res. Suppl. 1:1-282. 
SINGLETON, V. L., C. S. OUGH, and K. E. NELSON. 
1966a. "Density separations of wine grape berries 
and ripeness distribution." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
17:95-105. 
SINGLETON, V. L., M. SALGUES,J. ZAYA, and E. TROUS­
DALE. 1985. "Caftaric acid disappearance and 
conversion to products of enzymic oxidation in 
grape must and wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
36:50-56. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and E. TROUSDALE. 1983. "White 
wine phenolics: Varietal and processing differ­
ences as shown by HPLC." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
34:27-34. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and E. K. TROUSDALE. 1992. 
"Anthocyanin-tannin interactions explaining 
differences in polymeric phenols between white 
and red wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 43:63-70. 
SINGLETON, V. L.,J. ZAYA, and E. TROUSDALE. 1986a. 
"Caftaric and coutaric acids in fruit of Vitis." 
Phytochem. 25:2127-2133. 
SINGLETON, V. L.,J. ZAYA, and E. TROUSDALE. 1986b. 
"Compositional changes in ripening grapes: 
Caftaric and coutaric acids." Vitis 25:107-117. 
STAUDT, G., W. SCHNEIDER, and J. LEIDEL. 1986. 
"Phases of berry growth in Vitis vinifera." Ann. 
Botany 58:789-800. 
STRAUSS, C. R., B. WILSON, R. ANDERSON, and P. J. 
WILLIAMS. 1987. "Development of precursors of 
C 13 nor-isoprenoid flavorants in Riesling 
grapes." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:23-27. 
STRAUSS, C. R., B. WILSON, P. R. GOOLEY, and P. J. 
WILLIAMS. 1986. "Role of monoterpenes in grape 
and wine flavor." ACS Symp. Ser. 317:222-242. 
Su, C. T., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1969. "Identifica­
tion of three flavan-3-ols from grapes." Phyto­
chemistry 8:1553-1558. 64 Viticulture for Winemakers 
TERCEL], D. 1965. "Etude des composes azotes du 
vin." Ann. Technol. Agric. 14:307-319. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASETI, L., and P. D. BOSIA. 1990. 
"Evolution des acides amines et des oligopep­
tides du moth au vin." Bull. Off. Int. Vin 
63:21-46. 
VAN ROOYEN, P. C., L. P. ELLIS, and C. S. Du PLESSIS. 
1984. "Interactions between grape maturity in­
dices and quality for Pinotage and Cabernet 
Sauvignon wines from four localities." S. Afr. J. 
Enol. Vitic. 5:29-34. 
WAGNER, P. M. 1976. Grapes into Wine: A Guide to 
Winemaking in America. New York: Knopf. WEAVER, R. J. 1976. Grape Growing. New York: 
Wiley-Interscience. 
WINKLER, AJ.,J. A. COOK, W. M. KLIEWER, and L. A 
LmER. 1974. General Viticulture. 2nd ed. Berkeley, 
CA: University of California Press. 
WINTON, W., C. S. OUGH, and V. L. SINGLETON. 
1975. "Relative distinctiveness of varietal wines 
estimated by the ability of trained panelists to 
name the grape variety correctly." Am. J. Enol. 
Vitic. 26:5-11. 
WOLPERT, J. A, G. S. HOWELL, and C. E. CRESS. 
1980. "Sampling strategies for estimates of clus­
ter weight, soluble solids, and acidity of 'Con­
cord' grapes." J. Am. Soc. Hort. Sci. 105:434-438. CHAPTER 3 
PREPARATION OF MUSTS AND JUICE 
The natural variation in almost every aspect of 
grape composition is a major feature of wines 
and is the cause of the seasonal, varietal, and 
regional differences that they display. The ap­
plication of scientific understanding to the 
production of the best possible wines requires 
that we take steps to protect the most desirable 
components of the juice, sometimes by inter­
vening with natural reactions and sometimes 
to overcome natural deficiencies or imbal­
ances that exist by nutrient additions and 
physical treatments. 
One of the main purposes of juice prepara­
tion will be the prevention of undesirable re­
actions in juices (and subsequent defects in 
wines) and the following section aims to pro­
vide the basis for the many options that exist 
with respect to juice preparation. The ad­
dresses of equipment companies mentioned in 
this chapter can be found in Appendix I. 
A. CRUSHING AND DESTEMMING 
1. The Role of Crushing 
Crushing is employed to cause berry breakage 
and juice release from the grapes, and ordi-narily 100% of the berries will be broken. It is 
the beginning of the juice, skin, pulp, and 
seed contact that will influence the extent of 
extraction from these grape components. A 
secondary aspect of the crushing process is the 
elimination of the stems from the juice and 
skins and the isolation and collection of them 
for disposal. Stems are often shredded and 
dispersed throughout the vineyard, dumped as 
solid waste, or incinerated. Under some condi­
tions, to be discussed later, partial stem re­
moval or addition of some stems back to the 
must is practiced. However complete removal 
is generally sought. 
2. Crushing and Destemming Equipment 
Crushing equipment can be classified accord­
ing to which action takes place first. There are 
destemmer crushers in which the clusters are 
broken apart as the grape berries are torn 
from the stems. The berries fall through the 
cage and are then crushed by rollers before 
falling into the must pan of the crusher. The 
advantages of this sequence are thought to be 
that some whole berries can be left and that 
the stems are not in contact with the must, 
65 66 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
thus preventing extraction of undesirable 
stemmy components. There are no convincing 
experimental verifications of extraction from 
stems during this process and the likely con­
tact time between stems and juice within the 
crusher is of the order of seconds, far too 
short for significant extraction. 
Crusher destemmers break the berries while 
they are attached to the stems and the destem­
ming action is to remove the berry skins rather 
than whole berries. As a result, these stems are 
generally covered in juice and are a bigger 
potential source of microbial contamination 
and odor than those from a destemmer 
crusher. 
a. Crusher Capacities 
Crushers are available with capacities of 5 to 
lO Tm/hr up to 50 to Tm/hr. The capacity is 
primarily determined by the diameter of the 
destemming cage and secondarily by the rota­
tional speed of the axle carrying the destem­
ming blades or fingers relative to the cage. 
The ratio of the motor gear to that of the axle 
and the power of the motor will determine the 
rotational speed. If the axle is rotating too 
quickly, insufficient wall impacts and contact 
time within the cage will cause some berries to 
be ejected with the stems, leading to a loss in 
juice recovery. Excessive speed can also lead to 
more extensive shredding and attrition which 
results in higher levels of fine suspended solids 
that will have to be removed later during 
clarification of white juices. 
b. Grape Delivery and Must Transfer 
Grapes or musts are usually delivered to the 
winery in grape bins (gondolas) that are 0.5, 1, 
2, or 5 Tm in capacity. The grapes are typically 
dumped into a receiving hopper and the 
crusher is commonly fed by a screw conveyor. 
The must Guice and skins), is generally 
pumped to either a drainer or a tank by a 
positive displacement pump. The nature of 
this pump, the flow rate generated, the diame­
ter and length of the must line, and the way in 
which the must is delivered into the tank all 
influence the level of suspended solids in the resultant juices and wines. The use ofprogres­
sive cavity pumps is preferred for must transfer 
due to the smooth surfaces and fluid path. 
These pumps are discussed in more detail in 
Chapter 13. Small diameter lines, long dis­
tances, and many bends are to be avoided as 
they provide the conditions for the further 
generation of solids through impacts and shear 
stress. The generation of solids is a major 
concern in the production of unaged, varietal 
white wines and will be further addressed in 
later sections (see Chapter 5). 
c. Field Crushing 
Several wineries have moved toward the crush­
ing of grapes in vineyards in conjunction with 
machine harvesting so that the stems are 
dumped directly into the vineyard. This is 
commonly done where there is a considerable 
distance to the winery and where the stems 
pose a disposal problem at the winery. Further 
advantages to field crushing are that cooling 
of the must is easier to perform and antioxi­
dant additions are more effective than the 
same treatments with whole clusters. Some 
wineries have taken this to its logical extension 
with the field pressing for white grapes, re­
turning the white pomace to the vineyard, and 
transporting only turbid juice to the winery. 
This increases the effectiveness of any added 
sulfur dioxide in preventing the onset of fer­
mentation by natural yeast. The musts and 
juices generally are transported in closed ves­
sels to prevent enzymatic oxidation, spillage of 
the contents, and the loss of volatile compo­
nents during the transfer. 
d. Manufacturers of Crushers 
The two main manufacturers of crushers in 
this country are the Healdsburg Machine Co. 
and formerly, the Valley Foundry Co. The 
majority of those crushers installed in coastal 
wineries are produced by the former, while 
most of those installed in the Central Valley 
have been made by the latter. There are a 
number of European models in use and these 
include Vaslin, Demoisy, and Amos units. A 
typical grape crusher is shown in Figure 3-1. Preparation of Musts and Juice 67 
(a) 
(b ) 
Fig.3-1. A typical grape crusher. 
e. Crusher Location and Stem Removal be the collection of stems from many wineries 
in a district and the use of them as a fuel The crusher is preferably located outside of 
the main winery building so that the stems can 
be collected and removed at this point rather 
than from within the building. This is usually 
most convenient for truck deliveries in open 
bins. The stem removal system can range from 
simply forking them into a bin, to belt or 
screw conveyors, or to a pneumatic conveying 
system with a cyclone separator discharging 
the solids into a bin. Many wineries shred or 
chop the stems prior to dispersal in the vine­
yards to reduce their bulk volume and to 
permit more uniform spreading and integra­
tion into the soil. Another alternative would supplement at a cogeneration facility. 
3. Special Conditions of Crushing 
There are several alternative ways in which 
grapes can be prepared for fermentation and 
there are certain conditions under which the 
crushing can be modified. These include: 
1. The production of a wine using the carbonic 
maceration approach. In this procedure some 
extent of internal cellular fermentation takes 
place and whole berries are essential for this 
activity (refer to Section 5). Following this 
cellular activity, the clusters are sometimes 68 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
transferred directly to the press, bypassing the 
crushing step entirely, or crushed and fer­
mented by a yeast culture. 
2. The fruit is in a late harvest condition or is 
infected by either Botrytis cinerea or other 
molds. Under these conditions grape yields 
are low and berries are very high in sugar 
content. With mold infections, the grape skin 
is generally frail and easily torn and the re­
moval of shriveled berries from the stems is 
less successful, often leading to significant loss 
of berries with the stems if crushing and 
destemming is attempted. This type of fruit is 
also much more difficult to press due to the 
deterioration of the cell wall and the slimy 
nature of the corresponding pulp. Instead, 
whole clusters are usually pressed directly (and 
the stems or an inert plant fiber such as rice 
hulls, are often included as a press aid) to 
provide a more open press cake and more 
complete juice recovery. This practice can 
also be employed for the slip-skin cultivars 
(most of the native American and some hy­
brid cultivars) and often with the pulpy Mus­
cat cultivars and Sultanina (Thompson Seed­
less). 
3. Red wine styles in which partial crushing and 
some whole berries are desired in the skin 
cap. This approach attempts to provide some 
berry aromas or carbonic maceration charac­
ter to the wine by having them released at the 
point of pressing. Levels of between 10 to 
30% whole berries are typical in such applica­
tions. 
4. Red wine styles in which partial or complete 
stem addition to the fermentation is consid­
ered desirable. Such styles involve adding back 
dry stems at levels of 20 to 50% to provide 
some woody herbaceous aromas and addi­
tional tannin to the wines. 
5. Whole cluster pressing procedures such as 
those often employed in the production of 
sparkling wines. This provides the minimum 
time between berry breakage and juice sepa­
ration or removal and can provide juices with 
much lower flavonoid extraction and some­
times with lower levels of suspended solids. 
The use of whole cluster handling approach­
es for direct pressing is more common in the 
production of white juices from Pinot noir 
and Meunier for sparkling wines and some-times for the blush white wines from red 
cultivars such as Zinfandel and Grenache. It 
also provides juices from berries that have not 
been exposed to the normal contact surfaces 
of must pump and the transfer line. 
In all other cases, the vast majority of grape 
loads will be crushed as completely as possible 
in order to enhance juice release and will be 
destemmed as completely as possible by the 
crushing equipment. 
B. MUST HANDLING 
A number of the defects and undesirable fea­
tures of young wines such as low titratable 
acidity, high pH, the formation of significant 
hydrogen sulfide or volatile acidity, the inci­
dence of incomplete fermentation, and low 
intensity of fruit aromas can often be at­
tributed to inadequate or inappropriate treat­
ment of the original must. 
The first opportunity for the manipulation 
of juice composition is with the freshly crushed 
grapes. A number of important wine compo­
nents have been shown to display different 
concentrations between the central juice and 
pulp and the skin. The most obvious of these 
are the anthocyanins, tannins, potassium and 
other minerals in the skin, the flavonoid and 
procyanidin phenols in the skins and seeds, a 
number of the terpene fractions (Wilson et al. 
1986; Marais 1987) and other volatiles related 
to varietal character of the Sauvignon 
family-Sauvignon blanc, Semillon, Cabernet 
Sauvignon, Cabernet franc, and Merlot­
(Bayonove et al. 1975; Augustyn et al. 1982; 
Heymann et al. 1986; Lacy et al. 1991). The 
desire to promote the extraction of these and 
other flavorants has led to the practices of skin 
contact, which involves the use of pectic and 
various hydrolytic enzymes and to the 
widespread introduction of membrane presses 
that favor juice release with a minimum of 
skin tearing. 1. Skin (or Pomace) Contact 
The purpose of deliberate contact between 
skins and juice of white grapes is to provide 
the time and conditions for an extraction that 
cannot be duplicated by extraction during fer­
mentation, or other skin treatments. The ex­
traction is primarily of the flavonoid phenols 
associated with the skins and seeds as well as 
other less well-defined flavorants. (Ramey et al. 
1986). This is preferably done at intermediate 
temperatures of 15 to 20°C (59-68°F) in order 
to minimize the onset of fermentation by na­
tive organisms. These manipulations can vary 
from those without control of temperature, 
without mixing or juice pumping and impre­
cise times between 12 and 24 hours, to cooled 
must, often blanketed with an inert gas, to­
gether with pump-over operations and contact 
times so that a predefined degree of extrac­
tion is obtained, generally measured as a spec­
trophotometric assay of the phenolic content. 
Depending on the winery facilities, in particu­
lar the ability to drain juices quickly, some skin 
contact will become inevitable and this should 
be recognized. 
a. White Musts 
In general, the best white table wines of the 
young varietal style are obtained primarily 
from free-run juices and low phenolic press 
fractions. The greatest potential for the ma­
nipulation of juice flavor lies in the treatment 
of the terpene-based cultivars by heat, pH, and 
commercial enzyme preparations. The com­
mercial availability of glycosidases of microbial 
origin permits the option of skin and juice 
treatment of Riesling, Muscat, and 
Gewiirztraminer cultivars for the release of 
free terpenes from their more common non­
volatile glycosides (Williams et al. 1980). Stud­
ies of the influence of temperature on the 
rates of the enzyme-based hydrolysis in juices 
are not presently available nor are studies of 
the desirability of a selective treatment of the 
skins rather than the juice itself. 
In the past, the use of screw presses, which 
result in more skin tearing, provided desirable Preparation of Musts and Juice 69 
skin components but with an unacceptable 
level of tannins. Much of the extraction that 
would naturally occur for cultivars such as 
Chardonnay and Sauvignon blanc can now be 
recovered in the fractions from membrane 
presses without their corresponding tannins. 
Although these press fractions can often pro­
vide many of the components that would nor­
mally result from skin contact, they cannot 
replace the long-term diffusional extraction 
and chemical reactions that may occur during 
the skin contact period, especially when en­
zyme-mediated reactions, with cultivars such as 
Gewiirztraminer, Riesling, and the Muscats are 
concerned. 
b. Red Musts 
With red musts, the time available and the 
solvent conditions for selective extraction of 
flavorants are much greater. The application 
of skin contact for color and flavor extraction 
prior to fermentation has recently received 
renewed interest. The extraction and reten­
tion of the anthocyanin pigments during the 
fermentation is still not completely under­
stood. Particular interest lies in obtaining ear­
lier anthocyanin extraction together with al­
ternative tannin extraction patterns, but al­
most all of this is obtained by way of a conven­
tional warm fermentation. 
There is limited interest in thermal extrac­
tion conditions such as those generated by the 
process referred to as thermovinification, in 
which juices are heated to temperatures of 
between 50°C and 60°C (I22°F and l40°F) and 
mixed with the skins to provide a rapid, short 
term extraction condition. Of more interest, 
especially with hybrid grapes, is the use of 
must warming to promote the activity of added 
pectic enzymes and to facilitate pressing of the 
skins. Red juices prepared in this way for ei­
ther fermentation or concentration have the 
advantage of having kept the skins out of the 
fermentor, but the extraction conditions result 
in the production of wines different to those 
made in the conventional manner. 70 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
2. Must Cooling or Heating Requirements 
The use of must cooling will be dependent on 
the temperature of the grapes when delivered 
and for white must, the desired temperature 
for skin contact (if it is to be used) and the 
time delay associated with the draining opera­
tion before juice cooling can take place. One 
disadvantage with must cooling is the slowing 
of the activity of any added enzymes such as 
pectic or other hydrolytic enzymes. The con­
cern with a warm must lies in the accelerated 
enzyme reactions resulting in both more ex­
tensive browning and oxygen consumption and 
faster growth of native organisms. The ability 
to cool the juice and the addition of sulfur 
dioxide are often deferred until after skin 
separation has taken place so that a significant 
amount of the refrigeration energy is not 
wasted by cooling the skins. A more complete 
discussion of the heat transfer calculations as­
sociated with juice cooling can be found in 
Chapter 14. 
3. Inert Gas Blanketing 
The juice released from the grapes at crushing 
will initially be saturated with oxygen from the 
air. The mixing of oxidases and their sub­
strates in the juice will generally result in the 
complete consumption of this dissolved oxy­
gen in a matter of minutes under natural 
conditions. The pickup of oxygen from the air 
during the harvesting, transport, crushing, 
draining. and pressing operations can be min­
imized by the use of inert gas blanketing. 
Carbon dioxide is the gas of choice because 
it is heavier than air and will fall and displace 
the air from the must or juice surface in a 
partially filled container. Applications vary 
from the use of solid CO 2 blocks and chips in 
harvesting bins and crusher and press sumps, 
to the in-line sparging of musts with liquid 
CO 2 and gas dispersal over the must surface 
with gas from storage cylinders. Although it is 
seldom practiced, fermentation gases can be 
recovered from fermentors and used during 
juice transfers and wine storage for potential 
savings, especially in larger facilities. The use of solid and liquid CO 2 have the additional 
advantages of providing must cooling by direct 
heat transfer as they sublime or evaporate to 
form the inert gas blanket (Chapter 14), how­
ever, this process is relatively expensive when 
compared to conventional refrigeration. 
The use of nitrogen, argon or other inert 
gases offers no advantage at this point in wine­
making, although the solubility of the gas be­
comes a factor during the use of inert gas in 
procedures close to bottling (Chapter 11). Ni­
trogen gases will not have the denser-than-air 
blanketing effect of CO 2 and being closer in 
molecular weight to oxygen, the diffusivity of 
02 in it will be greater. This will generally 
require volumetric displacement in order to 
completely remove oxygen. 
The use of inert gases to exclude oxygen 
from juices as well as the opposite approach of 
hyperoxidation (that is, not slowing oxidative 
enzyme activity by cooling or sulfur dioxide 
additions and the deliberate introduction of 
air) can lead to juices that are depleted of 
dissolved oxygen prior to fermentation. While 
the inert gas case is a desirable storage condi­
tion for juice, it is a precursor for poor cell 
viability in the latter stages of the alcoholic 
fermentation (Andreasen and Strier 1953, 
1954). Aeration of the juice to provide be­
tween 4 and 8 mgjL of dissolved oxygen at 
the time of inoculation is recommended to 
avoid this situation. In situations where natural 
flora are to be used to conduct the fermenta­
tion, there will always be a competition for 
oxygen between the oxidases and the yeast, in 
which the oxidases would appear to always 
have the advantage. The problem is enhanced 
by the presence of significant levels of sus­
pended solids, which contain additional oxi­
dase activity, in white juices and incomplete 
fermentation caused by this continues to be a 
problem in certain countries (Ribereau-Gayon 
1985). 
4. Metering and Measurement of Musts 
and Juices 
The most common procedure for the mea­
surement the quantity of grapes in a load is by weight determinations. This can be done by 
weighing either individual delivery bins (or 
gondolas) or entire truckloads, first when full, 
then again when emptied, with the weight of 
the load determined by the difference. 
The bin-weighing approach uses a scale at­
tached to the beam which picks up the bin 
and can make both the full and empty deter­
minations as part of the dumping cycle. The 
major operating difficulty lies in the swinging 
motion of the bin since this needs to be 
stopped before an accurate reading can be 
made. Some systems dispense with the second 
determination and use a predetermined value 
for the empty bin weight. 
The truck-weighing approach is the more 
common one in the United States and below­
ground scales are used to weigh the truck 
prior to and after delivery. The scales are 
generally located at the grape load inspection 
or sampling station and the returning of trucks 
to this location for the second weighing can 
result in delays in the delivery of incoming 
trucks. 
The alternative approach is to perform must 
measurements of the rate of delivery by in-line 
procedures (such as mass flow or volumetric 
flow rates) that when integrated provide the 
same information. This method can also be 
used for the control of metered additions of 
sulfite, nutrients, yeast, and sometimes, malo­
lactic bacteria. 
Such instrumentation can be installed with 
both must and wine applications in mind. The 
meters could be installed in a removable sec­
tion of line and be used for flow measure­
ments and in-line additions of fining agents or 
blending of wines at later stages of production. 
a. The Quantity of Must 
Metering of the quantity of must can best be 
done volumetrically by using a positive dis­
placement pump such as a rotary vane or 
progressive cavity pump (Chapter 13). These 
can be calibrated in terms of rotational speed 
and throughput. If the pump is used with a 
variable speed control, the speed can be moni­
tored by a counting sensor and a sensing mark 
located on the pump axle. Such a volumetric Preparation of Musts and Juice 71 
metering system can then be used for the 
accurate control of in-line additions of any 
concentrated enzyme, sulfite, or nutrient solu­
tions prior to the must entering the drainer, 
fermentor, or press. In the case of constant 
operating speed for the pump, other in-line 
dosing pumps can be set at a desired capacity 
and the entire system controlled for intermit­
tent operation based on the availability of must 
to the inlet of the must pump. 
There are a number of mass flowmeters, 
generally based on magnetic sensing or Corio­
lis principles that could be used for measuring 
must additions. This approach has the advan­
tage of being able to allow for variations in the 
pumping rate and for gas entrainment within 
the must line (by comparison, a volumetric 
meter would presume that only must had been 
delivered). These meters would be particularly 
suited to the determination of the mass of a 
load by an in-line procedure as an alternative 
to the present double-weighing procedure that 
often impedes the rapid delivery and handling 
of loads. 
b. In-Line Additions to Musts 
The nature of the addition will influence 
whether the must is the appropriate point for 
it to be made. For example, with pectic en­
zyme additions to release more free-run juice, 
the principal substrates will be in the skins and 
the juice merely acts as the delivering agent. 
The activity will be best at warmer tempera­
tures and adequate time should be allowed for 
the hydrolysis reaction to proceed prior to 
pressing. In the case of sulfite, there will be 
activities of oxidative enzymes both in the juice 
and associated with the pulp, and the presence 
of natural microorganisms both in the juice 
and on the skins. There will also be consider­
able loss of added material to the skins and 
suspended pulp. In the case of nutrient addi­
tions, there will also be a loss of added mate­
rial associated with the removal of skins for 
pressing of white cultivars. As a result, some 
wineries have opted to make the additions of 
sulfur dioxide, nutrients, and yeast only to 
clarified juices for white wine production. 72 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
The use of different levels of addition to 
white and red musts can be easily handled by 
the use of a programmable controller on the 
addition pump that would only need to know 
the type of must, or by the use of separate 
crushing units or must lines for the two must 
types. 
Whatever the choice, the result of in-line 
rather than batch addition will be a more 
uniform mixing of the addition in the must 
during transport to the fermentor, resulting in 
a more uniform distribution of the addition 
throughout the entire load. The must will also 
be in a more protected state should produc­
tion difficulties arise which might delay the 
timing of the yeast inoculation. 
c. Juice Properties 
The use of in-line refractometers for the de­
termination of must density (and hence the 
sugar content of the load) is popular in parts 
of Europe. The refractive index value of the 
load is taken as the average value recorded 
during the transfer period. There are a num­
ber of meters for solution density which are 
based on the vibrational frequency of an inter­
nal oscillating element, the difficulties lie in 
the separation of clear juice from the skins in 
a proportionate manner and the disadvantage 
is that a juice-only measure is obtained. 
The juice-only value can be quite different 
from that of the skins of certain cultivars and 
especially for partially dehydrated berries, 
where it can be higher by as much as 10% of 
the density or sugar value. The higher sugar in 
the skins is usually only apparent during skin 
contact, pressing, or fermentation and can 
pose later difficulties with grape payment, in­
complete fermentation due to the higher 
ethanol levels, or the taxation or classification 
of wines based on their ethanol content. 
An in-line monitoring system for sugar con­
tent would be a desirable alternative to the 
present manual sampling procedure (of a pre­
determined number of tube samples from a 
preselected number of delivery bins). The de­
cision to reject a load based on the juice 
density could, however, only be made after the grapes are crushed and transported into a 
holding tank, rather than before, as the pre­
sent scheme allows. Many wineries have grape 
buying contracts that have bonus functions for 
certain sugar contents so that the accurate 
determination of the sugar level can be of 
significant financial importance. From a fer­
mentation point of view, the juice density at 
the time of inoculation is more important 
than that at delivery. Some cultivars and matu­
rity conditions have shown a tendency to re­
lease additional sugar from more concen­
trated layers of the pulp and skins after the 
initial juice release. This can result in a rise in 
the sugar content when associated with skin 
contact and press fractions and higher than 
expected ethanol yields from the measured 
sugar content. If raisined berries are present, 
the discrepancy is even larger. 
d. Other Measurements of Composition 
There are now several commercial spec­
trophotometers that can measure in the near­
infrared (NIR) region of the electromagnetic 
spectrum. These can be used for the accurate 
determination of sugar content, either by an 
in-line or sampled measurement. The main 
advantage is that the actual sugar content as 
glucose and fructose would be measured rather 
than a solution property such as density or 
refractive index. A second advantage is that 
the solution properties are temperature de­
pendant while the spectrophotometric deter­
mination is not. The solution property ap­
proach requires that the sample temperature 
be recorded and for corrections to be made. 
(The same spectrophotometers have the capa­
bility of determining ethanol content and the 
extraction of phenolics and could be used as 
general analytical sensors for fermentation 
monitoring and wines rather than sugar in­
struments alone). Some of these units use opti­
cal fiber probes that would be particularly 
useful in the process analysis of juice and wine 
composition. There do not appear to be any 
of these units presently in a production-scale 
application in the U.S. wine industry. 5. Must Lines and Tank Filling 
Must lines provide the most common means 
by which must is directed to selected drainers 
or fermentors. They should be made from 
stainless steel, 102 to 153 mm in diameter, 
sloping for self-draining and able to be iso­
lated and rinsed easily or taken apart in sec­
tions for cleaning. They should be free of 
small-radius right-angle bends, with a mini­
mum of vertical rises and overall distance. 
Drainers should be located adjacent to or as 
close as possible to the crusher (and the must 
pump) to minimize the formation of fine solids 
associated with the shearing and tearing of 
pulp during the transfer operation. 
Drainers and tanks should be filled from 
the base, to avoid solids generation by skins 
falling from the top of the tanks to the surface 
and through a ball valve, to avoid obstructions 
and to permit the line to completely close in 
the presence of solids. The flow resistance 
experienced by the must pump, due to the 
must line and all of its fittings will be least at 
the beginning and increasing throughout the 
filling, but always less than that required to 
raise the must to the level that would be used 
if it was to be filled from the top of the tank. 
In cases where in-line must cooling is de­
sired, the heat exchanger should be located so 
as to minimize the downstream length of the 
must line. This is because the must being 
transported is under conditions of relatively 
high surface area per unit volume and a sig­
nificant heat load can be gained from warm 
ambient air. The alternative is to provide ther­
mal insulation for the must line from this 
point to the tank so as to minimize the pickup 
of heat from the surrounding air. 
C. JUICE AND SKIN SEPARATION 
FOR WHITE WINES 
The juice to be prepared for white table wine 
will generally be removed from its skins for 
two main reasons. The first is the skins repre­
sent a major source of natural microflora and Preparation oj Musts and Juice 73 
the second is the desire to minimize the extent 
of phenol extraction from the skins. 
1. Natural Settling for Skin Separation 
The use of gravity settling for the separation of 
skins from the juice in vertical tanks continues 
to be a fairly common practice. The time 
required will be determined by the rate at 
which the skin cap rises in relation to the 
height of the tank. The rate of rise of the skin 
cap is influenced by the extent of gas inclu­
sions in the cap. The rate is fastest at the 
beginning and then declines, taking progres­
sively longer times for the successive improve­
ments in separation. The practice of introduc­
ing an inert gas at the base of the tank to assist 
in the rise of the cap is not widely practiced. 
2. Static Drainers 
A drainer is a specially designed piece of 
equipment that makes use of some kind of 
screen for the separation of free-run juice 
from the associated skins. This separation is 
essential for the production of distinctive vari­
etal white wines, and may take place either 
immediately after crushing or after a period of 
juice and skin contact. Drainers can also be 
used in some production of blanc-de-noir, 
blush, and rose style wines, port-style wines, 
and early-press red table wines. 
In a general sense, many wineries use the 
cylindrical fermentation tanks as drainers, by 
transporting the must into the tank, allowing a 
skin cap to rise, and then drawing off the juice 
from a point near the base of the tank in an 
operation referred to as racking. The sus­
pended solids in the racked juice are then 
allowed to settle further under the action of 
gravity before being removed by another rack­
ing step prior to fermentation. The problem 
with this method is that the suspended solids 
content of the resulting juice is generally un­
acceptably high at best and the juice will al­
most always require further clarification prior 
to fermentation. 
Most draining equipment uses some type of 
screen {made of wire bars or sheet material 74 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
with slotted or circular holes) to obtain the 
separation. There are drainers in which the 
skins are not moving with respect to the screen 
while juice is removed (static drainers) and 
those in which the skins move across the screen 
by sliding over the surface (such as the Dutch 
State Mines, DSM screens) or by an advancing 
helical screw during juice removal (continuous 
drainers). 
a. Early Types of Static Drainers 
The earliest developments in static drainers 
appear to be those in Australia, South Mrica, 
and Germany where the importance of low 
solids juices in the production of varietal white 
wines was first recognized. Static drainers built 
by (and referred to as) the Mackenzie, Potter, 
Miller, and Willmes drainers were introduced 
in those countries in the late 1960s. The first 
two mentioned were upright cylinders which 
were mounted over a hopper. The Mackenzie 
unit had an inverted conical screen at the base 
and another screen at the wall. The bottom 
door was opened after drainage to allow for 
the skins to be removed. The Potter tank was 
an upright cylinder with a conical base sec­
tion. The screen was a central cylinder which 
was drawn out through the top door of the 
unit in order to permit skin discharge from 
the base of the cone. The first commercial 
drainers to be used in California appear to be 
the Potter Drainer and the Winery Systems 
unit that was tested during the 1973-74 sea­
sons (Zepponi and Cottrell 1975). The latter 
was similar to the Potter tank except that the 
central screen did not have to be completely 
withdrawn from the unit to allow skin removal 
and discharge was through a front door. The 
limitations of these units were caused by slot­
ted screen employed and difficulty of skin 
removal following the draining operation. The 
screen type had a direct bearing on the filtra­
tion effectiveness and the ease of cleaning. 
b. Contemporary Drainers 
The drainer design most widely used in Cali­
fornia today is an upright cylinder with a ta­3-2). This is a shape that was in use in several 
European countries in the mid 1970s, but the 
important improvement lies in the introduc­
tion of bar screens that provide superior re­
tention of grape pulp during the draining 
operation, when compared to slotted screens, 
and easier cleaning. Screens of this type are 
manufactured in the United States by the 
Wedge Wire and Johnson companies and a 
typical cross section is shown in Figure 3-3. 
The skins are removed by a gravity gener­
ally into either a hopper or directly into a 
batch press. This is the most successful drainer 
yet designed and the drained juice is generally 
less than 1 % vol/vol solids and can be fer­
mented directly without the need for further 
clarification. Almost all of the earlier designs 
required either additional clarification equip-
pered conical section offset at the base (Figure Fig. 3-2. A juice drainer. Clarified 
Juice 
3 mOl 
ment or further settling time and a racking 
operation before inoculation could proceed. 
At present, 10-, 20-, and 40-Tm capacity 
units are being used in California. These gen­
erally have a single semicircular screen, al­
though some units have two screens. The 
screen area per unit volume determines the 
rate at which the screen fouls and in larger 
units the screen area needs to be increased in 
order to maintain this ratio. Manufacturers in 
the United States include Santa Rosa Stainless 
Steel (bar screen type), and the Paul Mueller 
Company (slotted screen type). Present instal­
lations in California have all been set up to 
discharge directly into batch presses. This 
eliminates the need for screw or belt convey­
ors for the transfer of skins. 
Some units have been fitted with cooling 
jackets, but this is of limited effectiveness due 
to the stationary must at the inside wall and 
the poor heat transfer coefficient in such a 
static arrangement. The poor thermal conduc­
tivity of a skin cap ensures that while cooling is 
applied to the outer layers of the must, only 
slow and limited heat conduction from the 
center of the drainer occurs. Skins. Seeds 
and Pulp Preparation of Musts and Juice 75 
Fig. 3-3. Cross-section of the bar 
screen used in the juice drainers. 
3. Continuous Dejuicers 
The alternative type of dejuicer that was used 
in the past was the continuous inclined de­
juicer. This consisted of an inclined hopper in 
which the base section was replaced by a slot­
ted screen to allow the juice to be removed as 
the skins were swept over it by a helical screw. 
While these units do provide considerable juice 
recovery prior to pressing, the suspended solids 
content is usually increased significantly and 
requires further clarification, commonly by 
centrifuges or settling, prior to fermentation. 
Typical suspended solids levels and juice com­
position from such de juicers have been re­
ported to be approximately 4% vol/vol by 
Maurer and Meidinger (I 976). 
D. JUICE CLARIFICATION FOR 
WHITE WINES 
White juices can be clarified by several alter­
native methods. The reduction of suspended 
grape solids to levels of 1 to 2% by volume 76 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
prior to fermentation is now a common prac­
tice and is supported by sensory evaluations 
(Singleton et al. 1975; Van Wyk 1978; Hout­
man and Du Plessis 1981; Williams et al. 1978) 
which show the preferences for such juices in 
the production of fruit-style white table wine. 
There are several reasons for the clarifica­
tion of white juices prior to fermentation or 
storage. These include: (1) A major propor­
tion of the oxidative enzyme activity is associ­
ated with the pulp and skin fragments, (2) the 
incidence of mold and wild flora is highest on 
the skin fragments; (3) the laccase from botry­
tis or other molds will be present in both pulp 
and skin tissue; (4) elemental sulfur and other 
vineyard residues will be more associated with 
the skin and pulp; and (5) there is some evi­
dence of an esterase activity within the grape 
tissue which reduces the accumulation of es­
ters produced by the yeast during fermenta­
tion. For most purposes an opalescent juice is 
adequate, water-clear juice is not necessary 
and is more likely to lead to fermentation 
difficulties when juices have a low nutrient 
status. 
The higher oxidase or lac case activity is 
associated with a more rapid natural oxygen 
uptake rate by the juice, leading to an in­
creased possibility of an oxygen-depleted con­
dition at the point of inoculation. The pres­
ence of high residues of elemental sulfur is a 
major source of the formation of hydrogen 
sulfide by yeast during fermentation. One of 
the main differences between the traditional 
and New World approaches to white table 
wine production has been the desire to pro­
duce fruitier and varietally distinctive white 
wines by more extensive juice clarification. 
The extent to which grape pulp particles 
are present in the free-run and press juices 
will depend not only on the cultivar and the 
physical condition of the fruit at harvest, but 
also on the methods and equipment used for 
harvesting, grape delivery, crushing, must 
transfer, and juice and skin separation. The 
crushing conditions, the type of must pump; 
the diameter, length, and bends in must trans-fer lines and mode of delivery into the drainer; 
tank; or press can all influence the quantity 
and size of suspended pulp present in the 
juice. 
The properties and the size distribution of 
these suspended solids need to be further 
quantified before a more complete evaluation 
of the separation alternatives can be made. 
These particles, together with compositional 
aspects of the juice such as polysaccharides. 
proteins, phenolics, and pH, will often deter­
mine the ability of these fine suspended solids 
to be removed by alternative separation meth­
ods due to hindered settling and the role of 
charged particle interactions which will im­
pede the clarification by natural settling. 
1. Natural Settling 
The natural settling of fine suspended matter 
by gravity is governed in part by the density 
difference between the suspended pulp and 
the juice. Other factors include the size of the 
particle, the attachment of bubbles, juice vis­
cosity and fluid currents within the tank caused 
by thermal convection or rising gas bubbles. 
Typical particle sizes in the range 20 to 100 
}.Lm and settling times of the order of 10 to 20 
hours indicate that the density difference be­
tween the pulp and the juice is of the order of 
0.03 to 0.05 g/mL. 
At certain concentrations, the mass of the 
particle can become secondary to the electro­
static repulsions of surface charges between 
similar nearby particles and settling is pre­
vented. The role of colloids in the juice, the 
pH and temperature of the juice then have a 
major influence on the rate of settling under 
these conditions. It is at this level that the 
clarifying effect of added pectic enzyme 
preparations becomes most apparent. 
The rate at which various levels of the tank 
can clear will usually be influenced by what is 
referred to as hindered settling. At the base of 
the tank, especially, the solids will settle more 
slowly as they encounter increasing solids con­
centrations and particle-particle interactions limit the rate and extent of settling. The ex­
tent to which they will compact depends on 
many of the factors mentioned above. The 
position and sharpness ofthe clear juice/solids 
interface is dependent on the juice and its 
handling history. There is a widespread varia­
tion in the settling and compaction of such 
lees. The use of a racking arm (Figure 3-4) and 
a sight glass fitting in conjunction with the 
racking valve will greatly enhance the recovery 
of clear juice fractions in the presence of such 
variations in settling. In California, the racking 
arms are made by York Machine Works. 
The effect of circulation patterns within the 
tank caused by either thermal convection or 
the onset of fermentation, can easily prevent 
normal settling from taking place. The bene­
fits of juice cooling in order to promote rapid 
settling is well recognized and this is due to 
the minimization of natural convection pat­
terns and microbial activity rather than other 
explanations. Similarly, tall, small-diameter 
tanks will generally minimize the role of natu­
ral convection patterns and provide more ideal 
settling conditions even though the settling 
path is longer. As a result, the ability to clarify 
juices by this method depends on the ability 
to cool juices and to prevent spontaneous 
fermentations. Preparation of Musts and Juice 77 
2. Clarification by Disc or Desludging 
Centrifuges 
One alternative to natural settling which pro­
vides higher handling rates and a more exten­
sive and predictable clarification is the use of 
the centrifugal separators known as cen­
trifuges. The rapid clarification of juice and 
wine during the harvest permits better use of 
other equipment, but at considerably higher 
capital costs. There is a more extensive re­
moval of larger grape pulp particles than by 
natural settling (Maurer 1978), and the hin­
dered setting is practically eliminated. 
The disc (or desludging) centrifuges have 
been used in winemaking throughout the 
world for more than 25 years. They have been 
used for the clarification of settled white juices 
and press fractions as well as for wines after 
fermentation and fining additions. They are 
mostly used in the two latter applications to­
day, primarily because of the introduction and 
advantages of the decanting centrifuge for 
juice applications (see Chapter 7 for a more 
complete description of these machines and 
their operation). 
The desludging centrifuges are best used to 
clarify juices of solids from typically less than 
4% by volume (vol/vol) down to 1 % or less. 
Fig. 3-4. A typical racking arm. 78 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
The flow is semicontinuous, being interrupted 
for the solids removal operation that is re­
ferred to as desludging. The frequency of 
desludging is proportional to the quantity of 
solids being removed and the juice through­
put is reduced accordingly. This operating 
characteristic provides higher-capacity clarifi­
cation only in juices with lower solids contents 
and their usefulness is limited with juices that 
are high in solids. It has the attractive feature 
of rapidly clarifying juices and yet allowing a 
small but predetermined quantity of natural 
solids to remain in the juice. 
3. Clarification by Scroll or Decanting 
Centrifuges 
The decanting centrifuges are more suitable 
for handling juices with higher solids contents 
than the desludging units, and they provide 
continual rather than intermittent solids dis­
charge. The solids are discharged at one end 
as a relatively dry paste while the clarified 
juice leaves at the other end. The decanters 
develop much lower separating forces, have 
longer residence times for the juice, and are 
more suited to heavy lees clarification, primar­
ily on juices rather than wines. Their capacity 
is not greatly affected by a high level of solids 
in the feed material. They also have operating 
advantages over the alternative diatomaceous 
earth lees filters and can also produce exten­
sively, but not completely, clarified juices (see 
Chapter 7 for a more complete description of 
these machines and their operation). 
4. Clarification by Filtration 
a. Diatomaceous Earth Filtration 
The use of diatomaceous earth filters for the 
general clarification of juices has declined in 
recent years. The most common type of filter 
employed for this task is the rotary drum vac­
uum filter which is still used in parts of the 
world for this purpose. The other application 
is the use of plate-and-frame lees filters for 
juice recovery from settled lees. Specially designed lees filters which can op­
erate at pressure differences of above 6 bar 
(90 psi) are generally used either with or with­
out the use of a filter aid. Rotary vacuum 
filters are sometimes preferred due to the east' 
of removal of the filter cake compared to 
those developed in pressure- leaf and plate­
and-frame filters. While there is evidence of 
the adsorption of amino acids by diatoma­
ceous earth (Tercelj 1965), this is not a major 
effect during normal filtrations. The first juice 
to contact the earth cake may be significantly 
depleted of these components, but once the 
precoat becomes saturated, it cannot adsorb 
further. The fraction of the juice which is 
depleted in this way is usually insignificant in 
most juice filtrations. 
b. Cross-Flow Filtration 
The present interest in cross-flow filtration is 
that it provides a continuous filtration alterna­
tive without the need for diatomaceous earth. 
The most important features of a cross-flow 
filter for this application are its ability to per­
form under a wide range of suspended solids 
contents and to be periodically cleared by a 
back-flushing operation. (A more complete 
discussion of the principles of cross-flow can 
be found in Chapter 7). 
Microfilters with nominal pore sizes of 0.2 
and 0.5 p.,m were first tested for the clarifica­
tion of juices in the mid 1970s (Boulton 1976). 
These units contained porous stainless steel 
tubes with back-flushing capability and were 
tested in juice clarification and yeast recovery 
studies. There is now a range of commercial 
units with various flow arrangements (hollow­
fiber, spiral-bound, porous tube, and flat plate) 
and membranes made from ceramics, polysul­
fone, polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride, or 
stainless steel. Most of the studies to date have 
centered on wine filtrations rather than those 
of juices (Berger 1985; Ludemann 1987; Peri 
1987; Peri et al. 1988; Descout 1989; Gaillard 
1989). As might be expected, some of these 
membranes and flow arrangements perform 
better than others in terms of fouling and ease 
of regeneration and the results depend on the particular juices (or wines) tested. The more 
chemically inert surfaces of stainless steel and 
ceramic materials seem to have less colloidal 
adsorption effects than most of the polymer 
materials and can be cleaned by stronger 
methods if fouled. The volume of the grape 
solids, which increases during batch opera­
tion, becomes a significant operating problem 
in some arrangements and there are obvious 
effects due to the colloid content of the juice. 
Further studies of the nature of the colloidal 
materials that cause the rapid initial decline in 
flux and the development of strategies to min­
imize these effects in grape juices are needed. 
As with most cross-flow units there is a need 
for cooling of the recirculating retentate juice 
stream. Much larger areas than those normally 
used for conventional perpendicular-flow fil­
ters are required because of the relatively low 
flux rates. At present there are very few instal­
lations for juice clarification in wineries al­
though there are a number of commercial 
installations for cranberry and apple juice 
products in the United States. 
Cross-flow microfiltration provides an alter­
native to diatomaceous earth filtration for the 
production of very clear, nominally sterile 
juice. It is be best used in conjunction with 
other equipment that can provide partially 
clarified juices (such as a centrifuge) rather 
than for use with turbid juices directly. It will 
be discussed in Chapter 7 with regard to wine 
clarification applications. 
5. Flotation Methods 
The application of flotation principles to the 
separation and collection of grape solids has 
received attention from time to time. In this 
approach, fine gas bubbles, usually nitrogen, 
are introduced into a static or slowly moving 
juice. Much of the suspended pulp becomes 
attached to the bubbles due to the surface 
tension and then floats upwards toward the 
surface where it can be collected. The main 
feature of the flotation vessel is a minimum of 
turbulence and mixing. All have a method for 
the selective removal of the clarified juice Preparation of Musts and Juice 79 
and/ or the floating foam containing the solids. 
Both batch and continuous approaches are 
possible. One of the earliest trials of this ap­
proach (Boulton and Green 1977) involved 
two long horizontal tanks, the first for bubble 
introduction and the second for separation 
and removal of the phases. The tanks were 
partially filled with juice, and headspace nitro­
gen was re-introduced into the juice by ejec­
tors. The separation in the second stage was 
achieved by an overflow weir. Juices contain­
ing 6 to 12% by volume solids could be clari­
fied into a stream with typically 2% solids with 
a recovery of 85%, while the solids stream 
contained between 30 and 36% solids. The 
heavy solids fraction contained significant juice 
and further treatment of it was required. There 
were factors within the juices which affected 
the stability of the bubbles and the foam phase 
and this was even more so when pectic en­
zymes were used. The process has potential as 
a continuous, relatively fast, low-energy pro­
cess for the clarification of more than 80% of 
white juices and has recently received renewed 
interest in Europe (Ferrarini et al. 1992; Davin 
and Sahraoui 1993). 
E. JUICE AND MUST TREATMENTS 
The materials that are permitted to be added 
to juices (and wines) are described in the 
winemaking regulations issued by the Bureau 
of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (BATF) 
(see Appendix B). These regulations also con­
trol the limits of addition for certain materials 
while others are referred to as GRAS (Gener­
ally Recognized As Safe) materials that can be 
used without limit. The procedure by which 
processes, treatments, and materials are ap­
proved for winemaking involves the develop­
ment of a proposed rule or action, public 
comment, and the rendering of a decision by 
the BATF. As a result there is somewhat of an 
evolution in winemaking regulations with peri­
odic updates of the general regulations. There 
is also an option for winemakers to request a 
conditional use permit for small-scale trials 80 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
with new materials, specific preparations or 
new processes. 
The treatment of musts and clarified juices 
prior to fermentation will often include one or 
more of the following actions: 
1. Nutrient addition 
2. Sulfur dioxide addition 
3. Acidity adjustment 
4. Juice oxidation 
5. Thermal treatment 
6. Enzyme addition 
7. Addition of inert solids. 
Some of these treatments are often essential 
for making sound wines while others are more 
appropriately termed stylistic treatments where 
the value is more a matter of wine style or 
individual opinion. The extent to which some 
of these treatments is necessary or desirable 
can vary quite widely depending on the culti­
vars involved and the wine style that is sought. 
There are often quite different approaches 
between regions and even countries. Within 
the stylistic treatments, there is usually a spec­
trum of opinions ranging from minimizing the 
effect to maximizing it, with many levels of 
acceptance in between. 
1. Nutrient Additions 
The rate-limiting aspect of microbial cell 
growth or fermentation is generally thought to 
be the rate of transport of nutrients into cells 
by membrane-bound enzyme systems, or carri­
ers. The response of the activity of organism to 
the concentration of a rate-limiting nutrient is 
usually one, in which there is a linear response 
at low levels but a move toward a saturation 
condition, which shows little further enhance­
ment, at higher concentrations. When a nutri­
ent becomes growth-limiting, small additions 
will generally result in more rapid growth, 
while additions to levels above that required, 
lead to little if any further enhancement. One 
of the dilemmas that winemakers face is that 
there will generally be a positive response to 
the addition in a deficient juice, but usually no 
effect will be seen for the same action in nutritionally adequate juices. Nutrients of im­
portance to the growth of yeast and bacteria in 
juices include nitrogen sources (both ammo­
nia and free amino acids) and the vitamins 
(biotin, thiamin, pantothenic acid, and inosi­
tol). The problem is compounded since it is 
not easy or practical to assay juices for all 
growth-limiting nutrients in advance. 
The nutrient status of the juice is particu­
larly important for clarified white juices. This 
is because red musts are in contact with their 
skins and grape pulp during most of the fer­
mentation. White juices which have been set­
tled to moderate solids levels of 3 to 4% 
vol/vol will rarely show signs of nutritional 
deficiencies. However, juices which are clari­
fied extensively, typically to 1 % vol/vol or less 
by settling, centrifugation, or filtration, will 
display a higher incidence of nutritional defi­
ciencies. The results can range from slower 
than usual fermentation rates (Schanderl 
1959), and even incomplete fermentation, to 
the production of unusually high levels of such 
byproducts as acetic acid, pyruvic acid, and 
hydrogen sulfide. The extent to which these 
abnormalities is observed is higher among 
small fermentation volumes in which grape 
loads from individual vineyards are fermented 
separately. These effects are encountered far 
less in wineries where different loads of grapes 
or loads of different cultivars are fermented 
together, primarily due to some loads with 
lower than usual levels being compensated for 
by other loads with higher than usual levels of 
a limiting component. 
a. Ammonium Salts 
Ammonium salt additions have been known to 
stimulate the rate of fermentation of certain 
musts for more than 30 years. There are early 
examples of ammonium additions to juices 
since the early 1900s (Archer and Castor 1956). 
Since that time, ammonium salt additions have 
been used in winemaking regions throughout 
the world, although the response to such addi­
tions will often vary from vineyard to vineyard 
and from season to season. Studies in Califor­
nia have often shown little if any effect of such additions (Archer and Castor 1956), while oth­
ers in regions of South Mrica and Australia 
(Agenbach 1977; Monk 1986) have resulted in 
significant effects indicating inadequate levels 
of assimilable nitrogen or phosphorus. 
The unique feature of ammonium salts is 
that they were found to be more stimulatory 
than an equivalent amount of any correspond­
ing amino acid in beer worts. This is now 
thought to be due to different transport sys­
tems for the ammonium ions and amino acids, 
and a more responsive system for the ammo­
nium ion. The amino acids are mostly trans­
ported into the yeast cell by a general amino 
acid carrier, while the ammonium ion is trans­
ported by an entirely different carrier (see also 
Chapter 4). The form of nitrogen added by 
most investigators is generally the monohydro­
gen phosphate salt, although other forms have 
been used. The additions are commonly re­
ported in terms of the quantity of elemental 
nitrogen rather than the quantity of the salt. 
There are, however, few studies in which other 
phosphate additions have been made to help 
in determining whether the effect is due to 
the ammonium, the phosphate, or the combi­
nation of the two (Archer and Castor 1956). 
Some phosphate is required for yeast growth 
and other salts (chloride, sulfate, nitrate) are 
less attractive. 
Some wineries perform routine analyses of 
the must ammonium content as a basis for the 
addition of ammonium salt supplements. The 
specific ion electrode procedure with a known 
addition (McWilliam and Ough 1974) is usu­
ally employed and corrections are made to 
levels in the range 100 to 120 mglL of ammo­
nia (82.5-98.8 mg NIL). Other approaches 
include the determination of the free amino 
nitrogen (FAN) content by a spectrophotomet­
ric assay (Mandl et al. 1971; Lie 1972) and a 
routine addition to all juices, without any at­
tempt to determine the levels of assimilable 
nitrogen present. 
b. Amino Acids 
The amino acid content of juice can be shown 
to depend on a number of factors such as Preparation of Musts and Juice 81 
cultivar, rootstock, and vineyard location 
(Huang and Ough 1989), as well as cultural 
conditions. With mold-infected clusters, there 
should be concern regarding the depletion of 
some of the amino acids and most of the 
significant vitamins due to growth of the mold 
organisms. Examples of the general depletion 
of amino acids due to botrytis infection and 
the corresponding fermentation problems 
have been reported (Kielhofer and Wurdig 
1960, Dittrich and Sponholz 1975). 
The assimilable nitrogen content of a juice 
is generally agreed to be confined to the free 
alpha-amino acids plus ammonia since proline 
and hydroxyproline are not used by Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae under anaerobic conditions. 
The free alpha-amino acid content can be 
determined by one of two colormetric meth­
ods based on the ninhydrin (Lie 1972) or 
trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) deriva­
tives (Mandl et al. 1971). The differences in 
the values obtained by these methods are due 
to the inclusion of the ammonium content in 
the ninhydrin procedure, its absence from the 
TNBS method, the inclusion of some peptide 
materials in the TNBS method (Mandl et al. 
1971), and the partial color yield of certain 
amino acids by each assay. 
The only amino acid presently permitted in 
the United States as an additive to juices is 
glycine, perhaps because permission has not 
been sought for any others. There are, how­
ever, several yeast hydrolysate and proprietary 
preparations that are approved for this, pur­
pose although few of these contain a full com­
pliment of vitamins. 
c. Vitamins 
The vitamin pool, in particular biotin, pan­
tothenate, and thiamin, is usually at the tens to 
hundreds of micrograms per liter. Due to the 
trace levels of these compounds, the percent­
age reductions of their concentrations would 
be greater as a result of mold growth. 
Early studies of the role of vitamins in 
byproduct formation on 23 strains of five yeast 
species showed that in many vitamin-deficient 
juices, the fermentations can be completed 82 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
(Ribereau-Gayon et al. 1954). The levels of 
nicotinic acid and aminobenzoic acid had no 
effect of byproduct formation. Juices with pan­
tothenic acid deficiencies produced higher 
acetic acid and more glycerol, while those with 
thiamin deficiencies decreased the levels of 
2,3-butanediol formation. The effect of low 
levels of biotin, pyridoxine, or inositol was 
found to result in elevated formations of suc­
cinic acid. Similar studies of byproduct forma­
tion of the widely used commercial strains in 
use today, need to be done. 
Perhaps the best examples of such effects 
are the elevated levels of bound sulfur dioxide 
in finished wines made from mold-infected 
fruit (Kielhofer and Wurdig 1960). Pyruvic acid 
is one of the major byproducts that would be 
expected to accumulate due to a thiamin de­
ficiency and it is responsible for much of the 
nonacetaldehyde sulfite binding pool (Dittrich 
and Sponholz 1975). 
The biotin requirements for maximal 
growth and fermentation of several widely used 
wine yeast strains has been determined to be 
between 0.7 and 1.3 JLg/L (Davenport 1985). 
The minimum levels of pantothenic acid re­
quired are approximately 50 JLg/L (Ough et 
100 
90 
80 
~ 70 
>. .... 
'> 60 ',p 
C,) 
~ 50 
.... c: 40 Q) 
U 
... 30 Q) 
0.. 
20 
10 
0 
0 10 20 30 40 al. 1989). The corresponding thiamin require­
ments are not readily available for the com­
mon wine yeast strains, but it is present in 
most yeast food preparations. 
2. Sulfur Dioxide Additions 
The use of sulfur dioxide to restrict the exten t 
of juice browning and to inhibit or kill most of 
the natural microflora in the juice has been 
practiced for many decades. The minimum 
levels of addition required to obtain a particu­
lar effect, such as 90% inhibition of the phe­
nol oxidase or a 90% reduction in the natural 
viable cell count, are dependent on many fac­
tors, and are considered in more detail in 
Chapter 12. 
a. Inhibition of Oxidative Enzymes 
Levels of 25 to 75 mg/L of sulfur dioxide in 
clarified juices led to inhibitions of 75 and 
97% of phenol oxidase activity (Dubernet and 
Ribereau-Gayon 1973; Amano et al. 1979). The 
level required for a 50% inhibition under these 
conditions is approximately 15 mg/L of added 
sulfur dioxide. The results from these two in­
dependent studies show a common inhibition 
curve with sulfite concentration (Fig. 3-5). 
50 60 70 80 90 100 
Sulfur Dioxide Addition (mg/U 
Fig. 3-5. Effect of sulfur dioxide on grape phenol oxidase activity. Since the levels of enzyme activity in these 
studies were not necessarily the same, one 
could conclude that the inhibition is more 
likely to be of a competitive type, that is, 
between the sulfite and the oxygen for the 
oxygen binding site of the enzyme. There is 
recent evidence that the binding of one form 
of sulfur dioxide is also irreversible (Sayavedra 
and Montgomery 1986). A more complete dis­
cussion of the nature of this inhibition can be 
found in Chapter 12. 
Differences in natural enzyme activity be­
tween white grape cultivars can vary by up to 
an order of magnitude (Traverso-Rueda and 
Singleton 1973; Hooper et al. 1985). With such 
a wide variation in natural activity it would 
seem that a similar variation in the minimum 
free sulfur dioxide level for similar inactiva­
tion or inhibition would be needed. The situa­
tion is further complicated due to the enzyme 
activity associated with the suspended solids 
from the berry. The binding of sulfur dioxide 
by grape solids plays a major role in the effec­
tiveness of any addition and the activity ob­
served can be due primarily to the enzyme 
activity associated with the pulp, (Amano et al. 
1979). As a result, much higher levels of addi­
tion are often required to prevent browning in 
turbid juices. Actual practice varies from rela­
tively high additions of 75 to 100 mgjL to 
must, of 30 to 50 mgjL to clarified juices, and 
in some cases no addition at all until after the 
fermentation. 
The reaction of sulfite ions with oxygen as a 
competing chemical reaction is very slow at 
juice pH and the enzyme reaction dominates. 
The rate of oxygen uptake is further influ­
enced by the variation in the enzyme activity, 
the temperature, the concentration of the ma­
jor phenols in the juice, the substrate prefer­
ence of the enzyme, and the competition be­
tween substrates for binding and reaction. This 
results in considerable variation in the uptake 
rates even for juice of the same cultivar as 
observed by White and Ough (1973). 
The extent to which this oxygen uptake 
results in browning depends on the formation 
of a colorless reaction product between oxi-Preparation of Musts and Juice 83 
dized caftaric acid and the peptide glutathione 
(Singleton et al. 1984). There is considerable 
variation in the caftaric acid and glutathione 
contents of cultivars and consequently in 
browning potential due to enzyme-mediated 
oxidation. 
The nature of the inactivation (or inhibi­
tion) of laccase as a function of sulfite level has 
been less extensively investigated; however, 
even at a sulfur dioxide level 150 mgjL free, 
an unacceptably high level for the production 
of wines, only 20% inhibition was observed, 
(Dubernet and Ribereau-Gayon 1973). Since 
there will generally be residual laccase activity 
in finished wines from botrytis-infected grapes, 
sulfur dioxide does not provide an acceptable 
treatment for its inhibition. The higher activity 
and wider range of substrates of laccase (Table 
3-1) make it especially troublesome in both 
red and white wines. 
Ascorbic acid can be used as an antioxidant 
either alone or in conjunction with sulfur 
dioxide. It affects the enzyme activity only by 
its competition for and depletion of the avail­
able oxygen. It can reverse the first step of 
phenol oxidation, that is, converting the 
quinone back to its corresponding phenol. 
This leads to a delay in the onset of browning. 
It does not provide any demonstrated enzyme 
inhibition or antimicrobial activity and can 
decrease the free sulfur dioxide level by way of 
Table 3-1. The relative activity of laccase on substrates 
in juices and wines. 
Substrate Relative activity (%) 
4-methylcatechol 100 
Catechol 104 
Protocatechuic acid 119 
Caffeic acid 132 
( + ) Catechin 100 
Gallic acid 109 
Phloroglucinol 143 
p-Coumaric acid 90 
F erulic acid 109 
Ascorbic acid 95 
Anthocyanins 97 
Leucoanthocyanins 84 
Source of Data: Dubernet et al. (I977). 84 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
peroxide formation associated with its reaction 
with oxygen in wines. 
It is important to realize that ascorbic acid 
is a substrate for the laccase enzyme (Duber­
net et al. 1977) and is expected to behave as 
such in juice and wine conditions. While its 
consumption by either route leads to oxygen 
consumption and eventual brown pigment 
formation, the enzyme reaction does not lead 
to peroxide formation. 
Levels of ascorbic acid addition range be­
tween 50 mgjL and 200 mgjL, depending on 
pH since the activity is due to the ascorbate 
ion rather than the undissociated form. The 
primary oxidation product, dehydroascorbic 
acid, is a potential binding agent for bisulfite 
ions and a precursor of nonoxidative brown­
ing reactions in finished wines. Unused ascor­
bate in finished wines can react in a manner 
similar to certain phenolic compounds and 
lead to the production of acetaldehyde in the 
presence of oxygen (Wildenradt and Singleton 
1974). 
b. The Inhibition and Killing of Natural 
Yeast and Bacteria 
The second aspect of the application of sulfur 
dioxide to juices is the rapid killing of natural 
bacteria and yeast that have been present on 
the grape skins. While a number of studies 
have isolated and characterized the major 
strains of yeast found on grapes, there are few 
studies of their sensitivity to sulfur dioxide or 
the rate at which they are killed by it under 
juice conditions. 
With wine yeast, the sensitivity to sulfur 
dioxide varies throughout the growth phase, 
with better survival capability as the stationary 
phase is approached. Studies of the killing 
power of sulfur dioxide in model wines (10% 
ethanol) indicate that levels of the order of 
0.875 mgjL of the molecular form are quite 
capable of reducing the viable cell population 
by several decades in a day or so (Beech et al. 
1979). In the absence of corresponding studies 
of the killing power of sulfur dioxide in juices, 
a more specific recommendation cannot be made at this time. It is generally assumed that 
the levels required for enzyme inhibition are 
adequate to provide a significant reduction in 
the level of viable micro flora or alternatively, 
inhibition of their growth. The alternative ap­
proach in which no juice addition of sulfur 
dioxide is made then relies on the overpower­
ing nature of the added inoculum and the 
developing ethanol to eliminate natural flora. 
While this strategy is often successful with re­
spect to ethanol-sensitive strains, it can lead to 
undesired levels of natural flora which are 
ethanol-tolerant. This approach is favored if 
concurrent alcoholic and malolactic fermenta­
tions are to be encouraged. 
3. Acidity Adjustment 
In the cooler climates of the world such as 
Northern Europe, Eastern United States, and 
Canada, acidity adjustment generally means a 
reduction in titratable acidity so that the re­
sulting wine will be acceptable. In the warmer 
climates, in regions of Southern Europe, Cali­
fornia, Australia, and South Mrica, it generally 
means increasing the titratable acidity, or the 
more critical situation of lowering the pH. A 
more complete discussion of acidity and pH in 
juices and wines can be found in Chapter 15. 
It is generally accepted that a juice (or 
must) treatment is preferred to a wine treat­
ment and this is especially so for the carbonate 
deacidifications or unless concurrent alcoholic 
and malolactic fermentations are desired. The 
adjustments will generally be based on target 
values for titratable acidity and pH rather than 
by sensory evaluation, due to the overwhelm­
ing influence of sugar levels in the juice. While 
these target values are usually based on previ­
ous experience with the extent of malic acid 
modification by yeast and the precipitation of 
potassium bitartrate during fermentation, typi­
cal ranges for titratable acidity in juices are 7 
to 9 gjL as tartaric acid and pH 3.1 to 3.4. 
The ability to obtain the desired level of 
acidity adjustment is very much influenced by 
the natural variation in the buffer capacity of various juices. The buffer capacity is primarily 
proportional to the concentrations of tartaric 
and malic acids and will decrease with reduc­
tions in their levels. It also depends on pH and 
has secondary contributions from most of the 
amino acids in juices and from the acids lactic, 
succinic, and proline in wines. 
Acidity adjustments can be made by at least 
three alternative methods. These are the addi­
tion of an approved acid, the chemical deacid­
ification with approved salts, and the use of 
ion exchange, either cation, anion, or both. 
The range of alternative methods approved by 
governments for the adjustment of acidity 
varies considerably, with perhaps most dis­
agreement related to the use of ion exchange 
as a treatment for acidity adjustment. 
a. Acid Additions 
The addition of tartaric acid to juice can be 
used to increase the titratable acidity and re­
duce the pH. The extent of these changes 
depends on the amount of precipitation of 
potassium bitartrate and the buffer capacity of 
the juice. Tartaric is the acid of choice since it 
is not used by organisms at wine pH while 
both malic and citric acids are substrates for a 
number of lactic acid bacteria. It is also capa­
ble of precipitation as the potassium salt from 
most wines and in so doing can lower the pH 
provided it is the major acid present and the 
initial pH is below 4.0. The net effect of a 
tartaric acid addition is the release of protons 
due to its dissociation and the displacement of 
potassium ions from the buffer. The actual 
increase in titratable acidity will be the differ­
ence between the magnitude of the addition 
and the extent of the bitartrate precipitation. 
Such a precipitation can be viewed as simply 
the reversal action of the ATPase enzyme that 
is thought to control the accumulation of 
potassium in the vine and its fruit (Boulton 
1980). The corresponding pH change will also 
depend on the strength of the buffer to resist 
the change, that is, its buffer capacity. The 
factors affecting the buffer capacity and 
changes in pH due to precipitation are dis­
cussed in more detail in Chapter 15. Preparation of Musts and Juice 85 
b. Acidity Reduction 
The reduction of titratable acidity (and the 
accompanying rise in pH) by the addition of 
carbonate salts has been most extensively stud­
ied in Germany. Calcium carbonate (CaC0 3) 
can be used to neutralize the titratable acidity 
and to precipitate calcium tartrate, or mix­
tures of calcium tartrate and calcium malate. 
The removal of the acid anions from the solu­
tion as salt causes further acid dissociation of 
the corresponding acid and a compensating 
drop in pH to partially offset the pH rise 
associated with the carbonate neutralization 
(Boulton 1984). 
The calcium carbonate application can be 
addressed in one of two ways. The first, a 
direct addition to the juice, is not recom­
mended as it results in wines which are clearly 
unstable with respect to calcium tartrate, a 
difficult stability to resolve. The second is to 
treat only a portion of the juice with all of the 
carbonate, adding the juice in increments over 
a 20-to 30-minute period. This process causes 
the pH to rise up as high as 6.5 initially before 
falling back to 4 or 4.5 at the end of the 
addition. The calcium concentration is several 
times that which would result from direct ad­
dition and the tartaric and malic acids are 
primarily in the tartrate and malate ion forms. 
As a result, the precipitation of their calcium 
salts is favored and this lowers the calcium 
concentration as well as that of the organic 
acids in conjunction with the neutralization. 
This method, often referred to as the double-salt 
or Acidex procedure was developed in the 
mid 1960s (Munz 1960, 1961; Kielhofer and 
Wurdig 1963) and has undergone a number of 
secondary modifications since then (Wurdig 
1988). The precipitation is primarily that of 
calcium tartrate (and under certain circum­
stances, the coprecipitation of calcium malate). 
Mter a period of approximately 60 minutes, 
the treated volume is filtered to remove both 
the precipitates and any unused carbonate, 
and then blended back with the untreated 
portion. 86 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
This method is commonly referred to as the 
double-salt procedure since earlier investiga­
tions concluded that a special combined crys­
tal form of Ca2 TaMa, with the appearance of a 
sea urchin shape, was produced under these 
conditions. Several investigations in other lo­
cations (Nagel et al. 1975; Munyon and Nagel 
1977; Steele and Kunkee 1978, 1979) found 
far less malate removal than expected and it 
has been shown that the one-ta-one removal of 
the acids only occurs when the initial malic 
acid level is approximately twice the tartaric 
level (Murtaugh 1990). The double salt is 
thought to form in the pH range 4.5 to 5.5, 
although the evidence of this is weak. 
The fraction of the juice to be treated is 
given by: 
ATiA 
where TiAo is the initial acidity and TiA corr is 
a correction term that has a value of 2 giL for 
juices and 3 giL for wines (Troost 1980). The 
magnitude of this term influences the extent 
of neutralization and the final pH of the 
treated volume. If too little juice is treated, not 
all of the carbonate will be dissolved, while if 
too much juice is used the calcium concentra­
tions will be lower and the desired pH ranges 
will not be obtained. If too much juice is 
treated, the initial pH rise will not be satisfac­
tory and the calcium concentration will be 
lower, resulting in a less complete precipita­
tion of the salts. These correction terms are 
expected to need refinement for juices from 
other regions. The quantity of calcium car­
bonate required is: 
M = ATiAO.667 V 
where V is the total juice volume. It is the 
mass of the acidity change (as tartaric, MW = 
150) scaled by that of calcium carbonate (MW 
= 100) to give the carbonate equivalent. 
c. Ion Exchange Treatments 
The application of ion exchange treatments to 
juices (and wines) has been proposed and eval-uated for many years (Austerweil 1954, 1955: 
Hennig 1955; Peterson and Fujii 1969; Rank­
ine et al. 1977). 
Ion exchange, either cation exchange (H+ 
for K+) alone or as a combination of anion 
(OH- for various anions) and cation exchange. 
can be employed to provide almost any speci­
fied acidity changes. 
The present BATF regulations permit cation 
exchange and anion exchange provided that 
inorganic anions are not added to the wine. 
Hence, OH- exchanging for organic ions is 
acceptable as would be the use of CO; for 
deacidification applications. 
Today, the most common use of ion ex­
change is with cation resins in the H+ form, 
for increasing titratable acidity and removing 
K+ from either juice (or wine). There is some 
use of the combined cation and anion (OH 
form) treatments for pH reduction with essen­
tially constant titratable acidity (Peterson and 
Fujii 1969). This procedure enables the or­
ganic anion concentration to be lowered un­
der conditions in which the treatment pH is 
kept low, avoiding the undesirable changes 
that would occur if the pH was even temporar­
ily allowed to rise to 6.0 or higher. 
Most cation exchange resins deplete a wide 
range of nitrogenous compounds from juice 
in addition to the potassium ions and sec­
ondary metal cations such as calcium and 
magnesium. Most of the amino acids and sev­
eral vitamins are cationic at juice pH. This can 
lead to induced nutrient deficiencies in the 
juices which will not be adequately addressed 
by ammonium salt additions alone, and gener­
ally thiamin and biotin will be required as 
well. 
The styrene-divinyl benzene polymer that 
forms the supporting matrix of most commer­
cial ion exchange resin beads can also be 
involved in reactions with nonionic compo­
nents (Peterson and Caputi 1967). While they 
are not usually large from a sensory point of 
view they are considerable in the lifetime of 
the resin that will eventually require replace­
ment. Un-ionized phenolic components are 
often adsorbed and as an anion resin is regen-erated in the OH- form, these phenols will 
oxidize and blind and discolor the resin. For 
this reason, regenerated resins more or less 
gradually deteriorate due to the inability 
of the regeneration to remove all adsorbed 
materials. 
The exchangers are typically arranged as 
upright cylindrical columns containing a bed 
of resin. They are operated in a cyclic mode so 
that when the exchanging ions has been ex­
hausted from the resin, a regeneration cycle is 
initiated. The regenerating stream is usually a 
strong mineral acid for the cation resins (and 
a strong alkali for the anion resins). The ex­
change resins can experience considerable 
fouling by proteins and gums with juices, and 
additional cleaning is generally required. 
The number of bed volumes of juice that 
need to be treated in order to obtain a certain 
increase in titratable acidity can be calculated 
from the specific exchange capacity of the 
resin beads and the bed volume. 
An emerging problem associated with the 
use of the conventional ion exchange applica­
tions is the handling of the waste streams from 
the regeneration cycles. These streams are rel­
atively high in inorganic ions such as chloride, 
sulfate, sodium, or potassium, depending on 
the regenerant used. A number of regional 
authorities are becoming more concerned with 
the salinity and ionic strength of wastewater 
discharges and salt recovery, and water recy­
cling options may need to be developed. 
4. Juice Aeration (Air, Oxygen) 
One approach to handling the control of oxi­
dation at the juice level has been to deliber­
ately aerate the juice of white grapes prior to 
fermentation in a process sometimes referred 
to as hyperoxidation. The aim of this approach 
is to oxidize many of the phenolic components 
which would normally be the substrates for 
chemical oxidation (and browning) in the sub­
sequent wine. The brown pigments formed by 
this action will generally be adsorbed to solids 
and be removed by precipitation during fer­
mentation, leaving only the light golden, Preparation of Musts and Juice 87 
straw-colored pigments in the wine (Cheynier 
etal. 1990). 
The difficulty in obtaining consistent results 
associated with this treatment lies in the fail­
ure to realize how much oxygen is needed to 
deplete the phenol substrates, the wide natu­
ral variations in the enzyme activity, and the 
proportions of the phenolic components that 
are substrates for the enzyme. As previously 
mentioned, the natural levels of polyphenol 
oxidase can show an order of magnitude varia­
tion between cultivars and vineyards 
(Traverso-Rueda and Singleton 1973; Hooper 
et al. 1985). 
Studies of the oxidative capacity measured 
by successive saturations of the juice show that 
one Muller-Thurgau juice could provide as 
many as 40 saturations before any appreciable 
decrease in the rate occurs (Perscheid and 
Zurn 1977), while others seem to show a de­
cline in rate from the outset (Amano et al. 
1979). This latter study was able to demon­
strate that the depletion of the phenolic sub­
strates was the reason for the decline by the 
recovery of the oxygen consumption activity 
when fresh substrate was added. 
The browning effect of one or more oxy­
gen saturations will be dramatically different 
depending not only on the level of enzyme 
activity and phenolic composition, but also on 
the proportion of caffeic acid and the tripep­
tide, glutathione (Singleton et al. 1984; 
Cheynier et al. 1986), or other phenol-gener­
ating reactions of the quinones (Singleton 
1987). 
It is our general experience (White and 
Ough 1973) that the majority of juices have 
sufficient activity to consume the initial oxygen 
saturation associated with the crushing stage 
within a matter of minutes, so that purely 
anaerobic handling is practically impossible. 
The extent to which further oxidations are 
beneficial is variable and quite subjective. In 
our experience, hyperoxidation diminishes va­
rietal character and is undesirable in wines 
that emphasize the contributions of the grape. 
The residual oxygen content at the time of 
yeast inoculation is a major influence on the 88 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
viability of the cells at the end of cell division 
and their death rate in the remainder of the 
fermentation (Andreasen and Strier 1953, 
1954; Ribereau-Gayon 1985). 
The solubility of oxygen from air in juice 
and wine is approximately 8 to 9 mg/L at 
20°C due to the partial pressure of oxygen 
being approximately 20% that of the air. By 
comparison, if a pure oxygen headspace is 
used, the oxygen solubility rises to about 40 
mg/L. The affinity of the enzyme for oxygen 
does not appear to have been reliably deter­
mined; however, a saturation constant esti­
mated from unpublished phenol oxidase ex­
periments would indicate that it is above 10 
mg/L oxygen, and that the enzyme is always 
less than saturated with oxygen under wine­
making conditions. If consistent and extensive 
oxidation of the phenol pool is to be obtained, 
a high level of purified enzyme should 
be added to override the variation in natural 
levels. 
Finally, there is an assumption in this ap­
proach that the phenols involved in the oxida­
tion and browning of wine are substrates for 
the enzyme activity. Many of the flavonoids are 
not good substrates for the enzyme, their 
nonoxidative browning and their ability to be 
regenerated during coupled oxidation (Single­
ton 1987) will be major factors in final wine 
color. As a result, the rote application of juice 
aeration and enzymatic oxidation approach 
will not be a consistent or reliable treatment 
for the minimization of eventual wine brown­
ing capacity. 
5. Thermal Treatments of Juices 
and Musts 
I. HTST Treatment of Juices. Juices from 
mold-infected grapes can be exposed to high­
temperature short-time treatments (HTST) to 
kill fungi and/or to denature laccase, a potent 
oxidative enzyme commonly found in grapes 
infected with Botrytis cinerea. Effective HTST 
treatment requires rapid heating to 80° or 
90°C, usually by heat transfer from steam, 
holding at that temperature for a number of 
seconds, and then subsequent rapid cooling with a refrigerant, in a plate heat exchanger. 
The HTST treatment can also be used to 
inactivate the phenol oxidase activity of juices 
(Jankov 1962; Demeaux and Bidan 1967). 
Based on the studies of Dubernet and 
Ribereau-Gayon (1973), the holding times re­
quired for the destruction of 95% of the activ­
ity at various temperatures is presented in Fig­
ure 3-6. This action can also denature a major 
proportion of the phenol oxidase, grape pro­
teins, and virtually eliminates the need for 
bentonite additions after fermentation. The 
denatured juice can sometimes be difficult to 
clarify by natural means due to protective col­
loid formation in some instances. It has been 
used in various parts of the world for a num­
ber of years, but is in limited use due to the 
lack of the plate heat exchanger necessary for 
the treatment. 
II. Thermovinijication. Juices of red must 
can be heated to temperatures of approxi­
mately 50°C and contacted with the skins for a 
period of 10 to 30 minutes, to promote color 
extraction in a process called thermovinifica­
tion. The juice is then separated and cooled 
prior to fermentation. The process is often 
employed with grapes that are poor in pig­
mentation, caused by either very warm or very 
cool climatic conditions. 
6. Enzyme Additions 
A number of enzyme preparations have been 
proposed for applications in juices and wines. 
These are necessarily hydrolyzing enzymes 
such as the pectic enzymes, proteases, cellu­
lases, glucosidases, glucanases, and ureases. 
Their application has almost always been by 
direct addition rather than immobilized con­
tacting. Juices and wines pose some unusual 
environmental conditions for enzyme activity 
due to the pH, ion strength and their sulfur 
dioxide, ethanol and phenol contents. The 
desirable temperature ranges for the treat­
ment of wines often keep activities low and the 
use of enzymes in solution causes low con­
centrations and longer treatment times to be 
necessary. Preparation of Musts and Juice 89 
100000 
10000 
~ 
~ 1000 
i= 
5 100 
:;::; g ... 10 .... 
(/) 
~ 
0.1 ~--~----~----~----~----~--~~--~----~ 
260 270 280 290 300 310 320 330 340 
Inverse Absolute Temperature (10,,5/(K» 
• Polyphenol 
Oxidase o Laccase 
Fig. 3-6. Temperatures and times for the thermal destruction of oxidative enzymes. 
I. Pectic Enzymes. The addition of a pec­
tic enzyme preparation to white musts is gen­
erally made to enhance the fraction of juice 
released during draining, reducing the frac­
tion that is released during pressing. They 
have also been used in the enhancement of 
natural clarification of wines (Hickenbotham 
and Williams 1940, Besone and Cruess 1941). 
The effectiveness of such an addition depends 
on the levels and previous action of natural 
enzymes in the grapes, and the temperature 
and holding time prior to the separation of 
the skins from the juice. One early report 
indicated that holding times of the order of 24 
hours were required for complete reaction at 
the 120-mgjL addition level (Berg 1959). To­
day there are several commercial preparations 
for either ambient or elevated temperature 
(60°C) treatments and addition levels are gen­
erally at the 240- to 480-mgjL level for ambi­
ent conditions. 
Variations in the performance of added en­
zymes in certain juices is sometimes attributed 
to the natural protease activities of musts. 
These have been found to vary both within 
and between the cultivars, and with the extent 
of mold infections. Pectic enzymes are used to assist the hydrol­
ysis of pectin, a cell wall constituent in most 
fleshy fruits. In vinifera grapes, the pectin con­
tent ranges between 0.6 and 2.6 gjL (Amerine 
and Joslyn 1951) and depends on the cultivar. 
Levels in native American grapes are consider­
ably higher (Rice 1974), and the growing re­
gion and the extent to which natural pectic 
enzymes have been active during maturation 
also affect the levels found. Grape pectin in­
cludes polymeric galacturonic acid in which 
approximately two-thirds of the carboxyl 
groups have been esterified into methoxy 
rather than the free acid forms. A useful 
method of analysis of pectin fractions has been 
developed by Robertson (1987). 
Commercial pectic enzymes are generally a 
mixture of at least two particular enzymes, 
pectin methyl esterase (PME) (EC 3.1.1.11) 
and polygalacturonase (PG) (EC 3.2.1.15). The 
PME hydrolyzes the methoxy ester part of the 
polymer, allowing the PG to break the inter­
linking bonds (Fig. 3-6). Small amounts of 
methanol result from this action and most of it 
is removed with the carbon dioxide during 
fermentation. Both exo-and endo- forms of PG 
are commonly used. The exo- form cleaves 90 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
galacturonic acid from the terminal of the 
polymer, while the endo- form cleaves ran­
domly within the polymer. At juice pH and 
normal temperatures these enzymes perform 
well below their maximum activities, typically 
at 40 to 60% in the pH range 3.0 to 3.5 at 
25°C. They can be used in juices either with or 
without sulfur dioxide since they are not in­
hibited by it at levels below 400 mgjL. 
Many commercial preparations also contain 
other hydrolytic activities such as pectate lyase 
(EC 4.2.2.2,6,9) and cellulases in an attempt to 
enhance cell wall breakage. Others can have 
appreciable levels of ,B-glucosidase activity and 
this has been used with limited success for the 
release of volatile terpenes and anthocyanins 
from their glucoside forms in juice and wines. 
Pectic enzymes are often assayed using an 
apple juice pectin (or a similar pectin extract 
from another fruit) as the substrate and activi­
ties are commonly reported in apple juice 
depectinizing units (AJDU), apple pomace 
units (APU), or citrus pomace units (CPU). 
The addition of pectic enzymes usually re­
sults in improved clarification by natural set­
tling, but there are other polysaccharides 
which may be the cause of poor settling char­
acteristics which would not be addressed by 
these enzymes. 
Although the use of pectic enzymes helps to 
prevent the development of pectin hazes in 
wines, the addition is usually made to enhance 
free-run yield in draining and pressing opera­
tions. The hydrolysis of pectin in the cell wall 
leads to earlier juice release, and in some 
cases, total juice yields (free-run plus press 
fractions) are increased (Ough and Berg 1974, 
Ough and Crowell 1979). They generally con­
tribute to more rapid and extensive natural 
settling of juices and in some cases improved 
filterability of the juice. 
11. Glucosidases. The two most important 
groups of wine components that are found in 
juices partly in the form of ,B-glucosides are 
the terpenes of the Muscats, Riesling, and 
Gewiirztraminer and the anthocyanin pig­
ments of most red grapes. The glucosidase is at almost full activity in 
the pH range 3.0 to 4.0, but its activity is 
severely inhibited by glucose in the juice. The 
presence of ethanol at wine levels also inhibits 
the activity to about 30% of the maximum, 
although the effect of glucose inhibition has 
been eliminated in dry red wines. The activity 
increases threefold over the range 10°C to 
20°C, but it is severely inhibited by even 20 
mgjL free sulfur dioxide. There appears to be 
some benefit of making the addition midway 
through the fermentation to minimize the 
combination of these effects. 
The desire to enhance varietal character in 
the terpene-rich cultivars has lead to studies of 
native and commercially available glucosidases 
to hydrolyze the glucosidic bond of the ter­
pene, allowing it to become volatile and to 
contribute to the aroma. Two studies that have 
demonstrated the effectiveness of this treat­
ment are those by Aryan et al. (1987) and Park 
et al. (1991). 
The glucoside of the anthocyanins make 
them more stable against color loss and oxida­
tion and it is more soluble than the free an­
thocyanidin aglycone. One approach to the 
removal of color from rose or blush juices has 
been to perform this enzyme treatment fol­
lowed by oxidation and or clarification with 
filtration, bentonite, or carbon treatments. It 
is rarely used for this purpose in current com­
mercial practice. 
m. Glucanases. Glucans are glucose poly­
mers with an unusual B 1-3 linkage. They are 
produced primarily in fruits by the action of 
Botrytis cinerea (Dubourdieu et al. 1981) and 
can lead to the rapid fouling of tight pad and 
membrane filters. They are not adsorbed by 
the common fining agents but show a strong 
affinity to the pad and membrane filters that 
often only becomes apparent shortly before or 
during bottling. 
This colloid can be hydrolyzed slowly by a 
glucanase (EC 3.2.1.91) which only has about 
50% of its activity at wine pH and only 10 to 
15% of this activity at cellar temperatures (e .g., 
10°C). It is not very sensitive to S02' but its activity is further halved at wine ethanol con­
centrations. Cellar trials with the effectiveness 
of the treatment on the filterability of wine 
have been reported (Villettaz et al. 1984; 
Wucherpfennig and Dietrich 1982). 
7. Addition of Inert Solids 
Many insoluble particles that are added to a 
juice will have some capacity for the adsorp­
tion of solutes to their surface. This adsorption 
of solutes to a particle surface is the basis for 
most fining treatments, wherein the agent is to 
be removed together with solutes that are ad­
sorbed to its surface. 
There are many small-scale fermentation 
studies that have reported effects of sus­
pended solids on the fermentation rate, com­
pletion, or byproduct formation, but these ef­
fects are rarely observed at the commercial 
scale. The most common practice of such an 
addition is that of bentonite in white juices 
and fermenting in its presence. This is not a 
widespread practice today as it adds to the lees 
volume and has shown little of the benefits 
attributed to it from small-scale trials. (A more 
detailed review of these studies and a discus­
sion of the role of suspended solids can be 
found in Chapter 5.) 
F. PRESSING 
1. The Role of Pressing 
The purpose of pressing is to recover the juice 
(or wine) associated with the pulp and skin 
section of the grapes that are not readily re­
leased by natural draining. 
Presses can be classified into batch and 
continuous types and there are several types of 
batch presses. The composition of the press 
fractions has long been known to be different 
from that of the free-run fraction. These dif­
ferences can be positive in terms of varietal 
character and flavor attributes (for example 
the terpenes, Wilson et al. (1986), and Park et 
al. (1991)) and for the precursors of certain 
aging components, but are often negative in Preparation of Musts and Juice 91 
terms of lower acidity and higher pH, exces­
sive tannin, and gum content. The extent of 
these differences is determined by the condi­
tion of the fruit, the way in which pressure is 
applied, the nature of the screen employed, 
and the movement of the skins with respect to 
the screen. In this regard the batch presses are 
generally less prone to skin tearing (and subse­
quent phenol and tannin extraction) than are 
the continuous presses. 
The generation of suspended solids is a 
concern because it leads to the need for fur­
ther clarification of the press fractions. Studies 
of solids levels and composition in press frac­
tions of batch (including membrane or tank 
presses) and continuous presses have been re­
ported by Maurer and Meidinger (1976), Mei­
dinger (1978), and Lemperle (1978). There 
are similar concerns for higher tannin levels 
and high pH conditions. These fractions gen­
erally require special attention such as fining 
and acidity adjustment that the free-run frac­
tions do not. The higher gum content would 
be expected to contribute to poorer settling 
and enhanced filter fouling in the latter stages 
of winemaking. 
It was not until the introduction of the 
larger membrane presses in the mid 1970s 
that acceptable press fractions could be pro­
duced at rates comparable to those provided 
by the screw presses, and the screw presses 
have now almost been completely replaced by 
recent generations of membrane presses. 
2. Batch Presses 
Batch presses operate in a cycle in which they 
are filled, pressurized, rotated, and sometimes 
held at, pressure depressurized, and emptied. 
The filling time is determined by the capacity 
of the must pump or conveyors and size of the 
press. The pressure is generally increased to a 
maximum pressure of 4 to 6 atm (bars) in 
stages over a period of between 1 and 2 hours. 
Most batch presses (excepting basket presses) 
are rotated while the pressure is being applied 
so that a regular-shaped cake is developed. 
Although older and smaller models were often 92 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
manually operated, most of these presses today 
have extensive programming capability and 
the pressures and holding times of the press 
cycles can be preprogrammed. 
a. Basket Presses 
Basket presses range from simple presses in 
which a wooden basket with vertical slats pro­
vides the restraining surface and a capstan is 
used to apply the pressure to horizontal ver­
sions that have become known as moving head 
presses. The use of vertical basket presses is 
now limited almost exclusively to home wine­
makers. Reasons for this include their small 
volume, difficulties in applying uniform pres­
sure to all parts of the cake, the tendency to 
squirt juice at high pressures and the labor-in­
tensive operations of loading and unloading 
these presses. 
b. Moving Head Presses 
The mechanical modifications of the basket 
press have been to mount the screen on its 
side and to provide a motor drive of an axial 
screw to move the pressing head. Such presses 
are generally referred to as moving head presses. 
The moving head presses range from those 
with only one moving head (Howard) to those 
in which a head advances from each end 
(Vaslin). Some have an internal threaded axle 
(Howard and Vaslin) while others have it ex­
ternal of the pressing cage (Willmes). There 
are even hydraulically displaced rams (Bucher 
and Diemme). Most of the moving head presses 
also have internal hoops connected by chains 
which are used to help in the breakup of the 
cake between successive pressings as the head 
is retracted. 
c. Bladder Presses 
The major limitation of the basket and moving 
head presses is that juice channels in the cake 
are quickly closed off as pressure is applied. 
This results in a dry outer section of the cake 
with a wet core. The hoop and chain arrange­
ment attempts to overcome this but is of lim­
ited success. An alternative design was to 
mount a long cylindrical rubber tube (or blad-der) down the center of the screen cage so 
that the cake would become an annulus rather 
than a cylinder. These presses (most com­
monly made by Willmes) were also rotated as 
the pressure is increased so as to develop a 
uniformly thick cake of skins. The pressure is 
supplied by an external compressed air supply. 
d. Membrane Presses 
The other type of press which is pressurized by 
air is the tank (or membrane) press. The 
membrane is generally mounted on opposite 
sides of a cylindrical tank diametrically across 
the ends. When evacuated, the membrane is 
drawn back against one-half of the circumfer­
ence while the skins enter either through doors 
in the side walls or axially at one end. Drain 
screens are mounted along the length and the 
membrane is inflated like a balloon by an 
onboard air compressor. The main producers 
of membrane presses are Bucher (now incor­
porating Vaslin), Willmes, and Diemme. Two 
examples of the membrane press are shown in 
Figure 3-7. 
Membrane presses have gained widespread 
acceptance due to the preferred composition 
of their press fractions. In these presses the 
pressure is applied with a minimum of skin 
movement across the screen surface, and this 
leads to much less tearing and grinding of 
skins and seeds. As a result the tannin released 
and fine solids generated due to this action is 
greatly reduced and the press fractions are 
lower in both suspended solids and condensed 
phenols (Table 3-2). These presses are avail­
able in capacities from 4 Tm (approximately 
2.5 kL of lightly drained must in volumetric 
terms) to 40 and 50 Tm. It is common for 
manufacturers to use the approximate hecto­
liter (hL) capacity in the model name e.g., 
RPM 100 or RPZ 150. 
3. Continuous Pressing 
a. Screw Presses 
The alternative arrangement for developing 
pressure is to feed the skins into a cylinder in 
which a large helical screw is used to force the Preparation of Musts and Juice 93 
(b) 
Fig. 3-7. Two examples of a me mbrane press. 
Table 3-2. White juice composition from a membrane press. 
Free During Press fraction 
run filling 3 6 9 Last 
Juice density (OBrix) 17.7 18.0 17.9 17.9 17.8 17.7 17.7 
pH 3.07 3.1 3.2 3.29 3.36 3.35 3.35 
Titratable acidity (giL) 10.7 10.0 9.35 9.25 9.15 9.1 9.1 
Tartaric acid (giL) 3.2 3.85 2.55 2.55 2.65 2.4 2.4 
Phenol content (mg/L) 357 433 486 439 403 440 473 
Condensed phenols (mg/L) 133 188 263 68 123 100 145 
Brown color (AU @ 420 nm) 0.175 0.076 0.663 0.553 0.697 0.60 3 0.566 
Solids (giL) 39.1 27.0 19.1 15.4 5.2 9.2 9.8 
SOUTce of Data: Maurer and Meidinger (J 976) with corrections. 94 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
skins into a plug against a restriction at the far 
end. The restriction is usually a door which is 
held partially closed by hydraulic pressure. 
The screw presses provide a continuous opera­
tion that is not possible in the batch presses 
and most units have throughputs of between 
50 and 100 Tm/hr. The throughput is deter­
mined by the diameter of the screw and its 
rotational speed. Makers of screw presses have 
included Coq, Marzola, Mabille, Diemme, 
Pera, and Blachere. The models are generally 
classified by the diameter (in mm) of the screw, 
i.e., the COQ 1000, has a 1-m-diameter screw. 
Screw presses have been generally replaced by 
membrane presses in modern wineries. There 
are however still some in use throughout the 
world. 
Screw presses had two disadvantages. The 
first was that the movement across the cylin­
drical screen caused considerable tearing and 
grinding of the outer skin tissue, leading to 
press fractions which are considerably higher 
in mineral content, tannin, and gums. The 
second was that their press juices were also 
high in suspended solids content, typically 
above 4 vol/vol (Table 3-3). This is an unac­
ceptable level of suspended solids for white 
juices and further equipment will be needed 
to address a problem that has been generated 
by the choice of a seven press. 
b. Impulse Presses 
A modification of the screw press to make it 
more like a batch press with respect to skin 
tearing led to the impulse press. In this press, 
Table 3-3. White juice composition from a screw press. 
Drained the screw could be moved horizontally by hy­
draulic pressure for a distance of up to 1 m. 
The screw was drawn back at the beginning of 
the cycle and the press volume was filled by 
the screw rotating like an auger. Once a cake 
had developed at the far end of the press, the 
screw was forced horizontally like a ram, pro­
ducing an effect similar to the moving head 
presses. The result was an intermittent opera­
tion in which the skin tearing was reduced, 
leading to more acceptable press fractions but 
at the expense of throughput. There are very 
few of these presses in service today. 
c. Belt Presses 
There have been a number of belt presses 
developed for juice recovery from grapes and 
other fruits. These date back to the Mackenzie 
press, which used a series of air-inflated pads 
to provide pressure to the pomace that was 
supported by a belt made of metal mesh. The 
belt was advanced so several meters of fresh 
pomace was spread out over a horizontal sec­
tion of the press. The air pressure was applied, 
held and then released, and the belt advanced 
again, dumping the pressed material and pro­
viding fresh pomace for the next pressing. 
Contemporary belt presses have a continu­
ous perforated belt that moves over several 
sets of rollers that apply the pressure to the 
grape skins. The juice extracted falls through 
the screen and is collected in one or more 
pans. These units have been used extensively 
for the production of whole cluster processing 
for sparkling wine production and can have 
Press section 
Feed 2 3 
Juice Density (OBrix) nla 17.2 17.5 17.5 17.5 
pH 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.4 3.5 
Titratable acidity (giL) 8.9 9.9 9.1 8.8 9.1 
Tartaric acid (giL) 4.5 4.1 3.3 3.1 3.1 
Phenol content (mg/L) 306 472 607 1142 1988 
Condensed tannin (mg/L) 65 176 211 738 2045 
Brown color (AU @ 420 nm) 0.149 0.249 0.412 0.730 0.965 
Solids (giL) 46.2 42 16.8 27.9 23.7 
Source of data: Maurer and Meidinger (976). very high capaCItIes. They have not gained 
widespread acceptance for table wine produc­
tion due to concerns of high solids in the 
juice, juice aeration, and the difficulty of 
cleaning. 
4. Compositional Changes 
The juice that is expressed from the skins can 
be significantly different from that which is 
not in several respects. These include the de­
sirable aspects of different flavor components 
(Wilson et al. 1986). The undesirable aspects 
are higher levels of suspended solids, higher 
phenol and tannin concentrations, lower acid­
ity, higher pH, and a higher concentration of 
polysaccharides and gums. The press juices 
appear to have higher levels of oxidative en­
zymes' due to the solids content, and they can 
brown more readily due to the higher concen­
tration of the phenol substrates. 
The extent to which these differences are 
found depends primarily on the type and op­
eration of the press and secondarily on the 
condition of the grapes. Tables 3-2 and 3-3 
show the differences in several aspects of juice 
composition from a screw press and a mem­
brane press (Maurer and Meidinger 1976) with 
Riesling grapes. Similar results have been re­
ported by Lemperle (I978) with three white 
cultivars (Muller-Thurgau, Rulander, and 
GutedaO over two seasons with a bladder, a 
moving head, a membrane, and two screw 
presses. Meidinger (1978) describes a compari­
son of several press types (bladder, moving 
head, membrane, and screw) with Muller­
Thurgau grapes from one season. A more 
recent press comparison (Weik 1992) provides 
compositional data for Muller-Thurgau, Bac­
chus, and Kerner grapes with a membrane 
and impulse presses. The differences in the 
total and condensed phenol values are partic­
ularly important in the coarseness and brown­
ing potential of white juices, and the level of 
solids generated is directly related to the need 
for additional clarification. 
Of particular concern today are the changes 
in polysaccharide and gum content since they Preparation of Musts and Juice 95 
affect settling and filter fouling, especially with 
membrane filters and cross-flow filters. There 
are a number of recent studies (Wucherpfen­
nig and Dietrich 1989; Bellville et al. 1991) of 
the behavior of these components in finished 
wines, but few have covered the effect of press­
ing or other handling on their release from 
grape tissue. 
5. Pomace Handling 
The wet pomace will need to be transferred to 
the press and the pressed pomace will need to 
be removed and taken from the winery. The 
most common means by which this is done is 
the use of belt or screw conveyors. These are 
often fixed in place, but in smaller wineries 
can be portable and moved into place as 
needed. In larger wineries, it is more usual to 
transfer the pomace by a series of intercon­
necting screw conveyors that feed a group of 
presses and have a common dumping system. 
In some locations where small presses are 
in use, the presses have been placed on rails 
and moved to the front of a fermentor (or 
drainer) and the press is filled directly. It is 
then moved to a central location for pressing 
and dry pomace removal. Other approaches 
include a hybrid system for white and red 
pomace handling. This makes use of gravity to 
discharge the pomace from elevated drainers 
and conveyors to move the pomace from red 
fermentors. The application of pneumatic 
conveyors for pomace movement has received 
only little attention. 
G. JUICE STORAGE ALTERNATIVES 
Juices are often stored to be used as a sweeten­
ing component or to extend the fermentation 
period. They can be prepared in one of the 
following ways. 
1. Sulfiting 
This approach involves the addition of high 
levels of sulfite (typically lOOO mg/L) to clari­
fied (and sometimes cation exchanged) juice, 96 Preparation of Musts and Juice 
followed by ambient temperature storage of 
the juice for several months, and then sulfite 
stripping with direct steam prior to fermenta­
tion. The sulfite that is removed in the vapor is 
then trapped in a lime (CaOH 2) solution and 
the hot juice is cooled down to ambient tem­
perature. The principal difficulties have been 
in the loss of thiamin by sulfite cleavage dur­
ing long-term storage and the stripping of 
most amino acids during the cation exchange 
treatment. These limitations may be further 
amplified by a low level of dissolved oxygen in 
the stripped juice and the lack of suspended 
solids in the juice for fermentation. This has 
led to sluggish and incomplete fermentations 
in deficient juices unless a nutrient mixture is 
added prior to yeast inoculation. The elevated 
sulfite levels are also more hazardous gener­
ally, and more corrosive, requiring type-316 
stainless steel storage tanks rather than the 
more common 308 steel used in the United 
States. 
2. Refrigeration 
One alternative storage option is to clarify the 
juice by one of several means and then to 
filter it to a level approaching sterility, usually 
by a rotary vacuum or pressure leaf filter with 
fine grades of diatomaceous earth, then chill­
ing to a temperature between -2°C and O°C for 
storage in well-insulated tanks. The disadvan­
tages of this option are the energy load to 
maintain the temperature and the loss of 
potassium bitartrate deposition during stor­
age. The clear juice is then warmed and forti­
fied with nutrients prior to fermentation. The 
loss of thiamin can also occur over a period of 
months if even low levels of sulfur dioxide are 
present. 
3. Cross-Flow Microfiltration 
The application of cross-flow microfiltration 
offers the potential for the generation of a 
nominally sterile juice to be prepared in a 
single step from a clarified juice. The princi­
ple of cross-flow filtration is discussed earlier (in section 3.4) and in more detail in Chapter 
7. 
Unlike perpendicular-flow membrane fil­
tration in which absolute retention of mi­
croorganisms is possible, the nominal pore 
size rating of the cross-flow filters is only ap­
proximate, usually being based on average 
flows or pore intrusion estimates. While some 
filters rated at 0.2 JLm will not be able to 
perform a sterile filtration, they are able to 
move close to it even in the presence of sig­
nificant suspended solids contents, and do so 
without the use of diatomaceous earth. 
The main factor associated with the fouling 
of cross-flow membranes is the colloidal 
polysaccharide content of juices (and wines). 
There are several studies indicating a reduc­
tion in fouling with the addition of various 
hydrolytic enzyme preparations and enhance­
ments in the flux rate by heating the juice to 
40°C or 50°C. These results are similar to 
those obtained with a number of other fruit 
juices, especially apple juices. 
4. Evaporative Concentration of Juices 
High-sugar solutions (60 + Brix) are relatively 
stable with respect to yeast and bacterial 
growth and, therefore, one alternative for juice 
storage, especially with juices to be trans­
ported long distances, is to concentrate juice 
to 65 to 68 Brix. This is usually chosen as the 
concentration limit because it is close to the 
solubility limit of glucose and fructose at ambi­
ent temperatures. 
The most widely practiced operation for 
the production of juice for storage at moder­
ate temperatures is evaporative concentration. 
There are a number of evaporator designs in 
use and these include the vacuum evaporative 
pan, falling film and climbing film designs in 
both tubular and plate configurations, as well 
as other evaporator designs. These units are 
generally connected in series for reasons of 
energy efficiency in what are referred to as 
multiple-effect evaporators. Steam is applied 
indirectly to the first unit (or effect) and pro­
vides the latent heat for the evaporation of water vapor under vacuum conditions. This 
vapor is then used as the heating medium in 
the second effect, and the vapor from the 
second effect is used as the heating medium in 
the third effect, in what is referred to as a 
feed-forward flow arrangement. The more 
efficient multiple-stage evaporators are not 
generally employed for grape juice due to 
concerns about product deterioration at these 
temperatures with longer residence times. 
There has only been limited introduction of 
the rising and falling plate configurations even 
though they provide greatly reduced contact 
times, generally one-half to one-third those of 
the tubular designs, with the shortest times 
being possible with the falling film plate alter­
native. There has also been limited introduc­
tion of thermal vapor recompression and me­
chanical vapor recompression between stages 
of multistage units. The recompression of wa­
ter vapor from one stage gives it a higher 
condensing temperature in the next stage and 
thereby a higher transfer rate in that stage. 
The vacuum maintained in each effect 
(often as low as 100 or 120 mm Hg) as well as 
the sugar concentration determine the boiling 
point within the evaporator. There is an eleva­
tion of the boiling point of approximately 4°C 
(8°F) as the sugar content rises from 22 to 68 
Brix. The evaporation rate is generally con­
trolled by the vacuum pumps employed and 
this in turn determines the residence time in 
each effect. The residence time of several 
minutes and the temperatures of 50°C to 95°C 
(l50-202°F) playa major role in the extent of 
juice browning by Maillard reactions and the 
formation of hydroxy-methyl furfural. The 
browning of concentrates during storage con­
tinues to be a problem that needs to be fur­
ther investigated. 
During the process of concentration from 
22 Brix to 66 Brix, 700 mL water /L of juice is 
removed at a theoretical evaporative energy 
requirement of 2326 kJ/L (8350 BTU/gal) of 
juice. Actual energy inputs are usually signifi­
cantly higher due to juice preheating, and 
thermal losses. It is common for significant 
potassium bitartrate precipitation to occur Preparation of Musts and Juice 97 
within the concentrator, as well as afterward 
while in storage. 
There are concerns with respect to low ni­
trogen and vitamin content and lower than 
usual titratable acidity when the concentrate is 
reconstituted (Amano and Kagami 1977). 
Potassium bitartrate lost during the concentra­
tion step will need to be added back for ac­
ceptable wine acidity. The reconstituted must 
is also clear and the role of suspended solids 
on the fermentation rate can be an important 
factor (see Chapter 5 for a more complete 
discussion of this point). 
5. Nonevaporative Concentration 
of Juices 
The direct concentration of juice or wine by 
reverse osmosis membranes has received only 
limited attention in winemaking to date. Sugar 
content in the range of 200 to 250 giL pro­
vides an osmotic pressure that is close to the 
operating limit of most commercial systems, 
with increasingly reduced flux rates as 275 
giL as approached. 
There are two alternative approaches using 
membranes that are capable of producing 
sugar concentrations equivalent to those of 
the evaporative methods. The first approach 
uses a two-stage system that produces an inter­
mediate stream of 40 to 45 Brix with trans­
membrane pressures of approximately 10.5 
MPa. A less retentive membrane in the second 
stage and a transmembrane pressure of 13 
MPa provides sugar strengths of above 60 Brix. 
This process was developed by Du Pont and 
FMC and this system is used for the produc­
tion of apple juice concentrate in the United 
States. The second approach uses a concen­
trated salt (or sugar solution) to increase the 
osmotic pressure gradient across the mem­
brane, thereby requiring lower transmem­
brane pressure differences. This system has 
been used for the production of varietal grape 
juice in Australia (Thompson 1991; Ray 1991) 
and the membranes are manufactured by 
Hoechst Celanese in the United States. The 
process is sometimes referred to as osmotic 98 Preparation oj Musts and Juice 
distillation although osmotic concentration 
might be a more suitable description. Juice 
concentrates of 68 Brix can be produced in 
this way without the thermal effects usually 
associated with the evaporative concentrates. 
There is a need for the salt stream to be 
reconcentrated and recycled with a corre­
sponding evaporative energy requirement. 
There are questions concerning the fouling of 
the membranes by colloidal components such 
as polysaccharides and proteins and few oper­
ating data are available. A more detailed de­
scription of reverse osmosis and its application 
to juices and wines can be found in Chapter 7. 
H. REFERENCES 
AGENBACH, W. A. 1977. "A study of must nitrogen 
content in relation to incomplete fermentation, 
yeast production and fermentation activity." Proc. 
S. Afr. Soc. Enol. Vitic. 66-87. 
AMANo, Y., and M. KAGAMI. 1977. "Winemaking 
from foreign-made concentrated grape must." 
Hakkokogaku Kaishi 55:330-336. 
AMANo, Y., M. KUBOTA, and M. KAGAMI. 1979. 
"Oxygen uptake of Koshu grape must and its 
contro\''' Hokkokogaku Kaishi 57:92-101. 
AMERINE, M. A. and M. A. JOSLYN. 1951. Table Wines. 
The Technology of Their Production in California. 
Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. 
ANDREASEN, A. A. and T. J B. STRIER. 1953. 
"Anaerobic nutrition of Saccharomyces Cerevisiae. 
1. Ergosterol requirement for growth in a de­
fined medium."]. Cell. Compo Physiol. 41:23-36. 
ANDREASEN, A. A. and T. J B. STRIER. 1954. 
"Anaerobic nutrition of Saccharomyces Cerevisiae. 
2. Unsaturated fatty acid requirement for growth 
in a defined medium." ]. Cell. Compo Physiol. 
42:271-281. 
ARCHER, T. E., and J G. B. CASTOR. 1956. "Phos­
phate changes in fermenting must in relation to 
yeast growth and ethanol production." Am.]. 
Enol. 7:45-52. 
ARYAN, A. P., B. WILSON, C. R. STRAUSS, and P. J 
WILUAMS. 1987. "The properties of glycosidases 
of Vitis vinifera and a comparison of their beta­
glucosidase activity with that of exogenous en-zymes. An assessment of possible application in 
enology." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:182-188. 
AUGUSTYN, O. P. H., A. RAPP, and C. J S. VAN WYK. 
1982. "Some volatile aroma components of Vitis 
vinifera L. cv. Sauvignon blanc." S. Afr.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 3:53-60. 
AUSTERWEIL, G. V. 1954. "Einige anwendungsver­
fahren von ionaustauschern in der oenologie." 
Weinburg und Keller 1: 195- 198. 
AUSTERWEIL, G. V. 1955. "Ion exchange and its 
applications." Soc. Chem. Ind. 141-145. 
BAYONOVE, C., R. A. CORDONNIER and P. Dt:BOIS. 
1975. "Etude d'une fraction caracteristique de 
l'aroma du raisin de la variete Cabernet Sauvi­
gnon; mise en evidence de la 2-methoxy-3-iso­
butylpyrazine." C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Ser. D 
281:75-78. 
BEECH, F. W., L. F. BURROUGHS, C. F. TiMBERLAKE, 
and G. C. WHITING. 1979. "Progres recent sur 
l'aspect chimique et l'action antimicrobienne de 
I'anhydride sulfureux (S02)." Bull. OJ.V. 
586: 100 1-1022. 
BELLVILLE, M.-P., J-M. BRILLOUET, B. TARO DO DE LA 
FUENTE, L. SAULINIER and M. MOUTOUNET. 1991. 
"Differential roles of red wine colloids in the 
fouling of a cross-flow microfiltration alumina 
membrane." Mitt. Klost. 46:100-107. 
BERG, H. W. 1959. "The effects of several fungal 
pectic enzyme preparations on grape musts and 
wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic.10:130-134. 
BERGER, J L. 1985. "Etude de la microfiltration 
tangentielle sur des Beaujolais." Rev. d Venol. 
36:17-21. 
BESONE J and W. V. CRt:ESS. 1941. "Observations 
on the use of pectic enzymes in winemaking." 
Fruit Prod.]' 20:365-367. 
BOULTON, R. 1980. "A hypothesis for the presence 
and activity and role of potassium/hydrogen, 
adenosine triphosphatases in grapevines." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 31:283-287. 
BOULTON, R. 1984. "Acidity modification and stabi­
lization," Proc. 1st Int!. Symp. Cool Climate Vitic. & 
Enol., pp. 482-495. Corvallis, OR. 
BOULTON, R. and G. GREEN. 1977. "Field testing of 
the Wemco juice clarifier." Proc. Wine Ind. Tech. 
Sem. Monterey, CA. 
CHEYNIER, V., J RIGAUD, J M. SOUQUET, F. DUPRAT, 
and M. MOUTOUNET. 1990. "Must browning in 
relation to the behavior of phenolic compounds 
during oxidation." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:346-349. CHEYNIER, V. F., E. K. TROUSDALE, V. L. SINGLETON, 
M. SALGUES, and R. Wnm:. 1986. "Characteriza­
tion of 2-S-glutathionylcaftaric acid and its hy­
drolysis in relation to grape wines." ]. Agric. 
Food. Chem. 34:217-221. 
DAVENPORT, M. 1985. The effects of vitamins and 
growth factors on growth and fermentation rates 
of three active dry wine yeast strains. M.S. thesis, 
Davis, CA: University of California. 
DAVIN, A., and A. SAHRAOUI. 1993. "Debourbage 
rap ide des mouts de raisin par flottation a l'aide 
de bulles generees au sein du liquide par de­
pressurisation." Rev. Fr. Genol. 140:53-64. 
DEMEAUX, M., and P. BmA;\;. 1967. "Etude de I'in­
activation par la chaleurde la polyphenoloxydase 
dujus de raisin." Technol. Agric. 16:75-79. 
DEscouT, J. L. 1989. "Utilisation des metaux frittes 
dans la filtration des vins." Rev. d 'Oenol. 
51:11-17. 
DITTRICH, H. H. and W.-R. SPONHOLZ. 1975. "Die 
aminosaureabnahme in Botrytis-infizierten 
Traubenbeeren und die Bilund hoherer Alko­
hole in deisen Mosten bei ihrer Vergarung." 
Wein-Wissen.30:188-210. 
DCBER-'ET, M. and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1973. "Pres­
ence et significance dans les mouts et les vins de 
la tyrosinase du raisin." Conn. Vigne Vin 
7:283-302. 
DCBERNET, M., P. RlBEREAC-GAYON, H. R. LERNER, E. 
HAREL, and A. M. MAYER. 1977. "Purification 
and properties of laccase from Botrytis cinerea." 
Phytochem.16:191-193. 
DUBOCRDIEC, D., J. C. VILLETTAZ, C. DESPIANQCES, 
and P. RIBEREAU-GAYO:-.l. 1981. "Degradation en­
zymatique du glucane de Botrytis cinerea." Conn. 
Vigne Vin 15:161-177. 
FERRARINI, R., R. ZIRONI, E. CELOTTI and S. BCIATTI. 
1992. "Premiers resultats de l'application de la 
flottation dans la clarification des mouts de 
raisin." Rev. Fr. Genol. 138:29-42. 
GAILLARD, M. 1989. "Essais de microfiltration tan­
gentielle de vins avec Ie filtre Memcor." 
Rev.d 'Oenol. 51:65-68. 
HENNIG, K. 1955. "Behandlung ser Weine mit Ka­
tionen- und Anionen-Austauschern." Deut. Wein­
bau 5: 126- 128. 
HEYMANN, H., A. C. NOBLE and R. B. BOULTo-,. 
1986. "Analysis of methoxypyrazines in wines: 1. 
Development of a quantitative procedure." ]. 
Agric. Food Chem. 34:269-271. Preparation of Musts and Juice 99 
HICKENBOTHAM, A. R., and J. L. WILLlA\1S. 1940. 
"The application of enzymatic clarification to 
winemaking." ]. Agric. South Australia. 
43:491-495; 596-602. 
HOOPER, R. L., G. G. COLLINS, and B. C. RANKINE. 
1985. "Catecholase activity in Australian white 
grape varieties." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:203-206. 
HocTMAN, A. c., and C. S. Dc PLESSIS. 1981. "The 
effect of juice clarity and several conditions pro­
moting yeast growth or fermentation rate, the 
production of aroma components and wine 
quality." S. Afr.]. Enol. Vitic. 2:71-8l. 
HUA.'1G, Z., and C. S. OCGH. 1989. "Effect of vine­
yard locations, varieties and rootstocks on the 
juice amino acid content of several cultivars." 
Am.]' Enol. Vitic. 40:135-139. 
INGLE DEW, W. M., and R. E. KCNKEE. 1985. "Factors 
influencing sluggish fermentations of grape 
juice." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:65-76. 
JANKOV, S. 1. 1962. "Hitze-inaktivierung der 
Polyphenoloxydasen in einigen Fruchtsaften." 
Fruchtsaft-lnd. Confructa 7:13-32. 
KIELH()FER, E., and G. WURDIG. 1960. "Die an un­
bekannte Weinbestandteile gebund ene Schwe­
flige Saure (rest S02) und ihre Bedeutung fur 
den Wein." Weinberg und Keller 7:313-328. 
KIELHOFER, E., and G. WURDIG. 1963. "Die 
Entsauerung sehr sauer Traubenmoste durch 
Ausfallung der Weinsaure und Apfelsaure als 
Kalkdoppelsalz." Deut. Wein-Ztg. 99:1022, 1024, 
1026, 1028. 
LACY, M. J., M. S. ALLEN, R. L. N. HARRIS, and W. V. 
BROWN. 1991. "Methoxypyrazines in Sauvignon 
blanc grapes and wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
42: 1 03-I 08. 
LEMPERLE, E. 1978. "Untersuchungen zur Qualitats­
beeinflussung der Moste durch unterschiedliche 
Traubenpressen." Die Weinwirt. 31:861-870. 
LIE, S. 1972. "Die EBC-Ninhydrin-Methode zur bes­
timmung des freien alpha-aminostickstoffs: Mit­
teilung im auftrag des EBC-Analysesnkomitees." 
Brauwissen.25:250-253. 
LCDEMA.'1K, A. 1987. "Wine clarification with a 
cross-flow microfiltration system." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 38:228-235. 
MAl,DL, B., F. WCLLINGER, D. WAGNER, and A. PIENDL. 
1971. "Zur einfachen bestimmung des alpha­
Aminostickstoffs von Malz, Wurze und Bier mit­
tels der TNBS Methode." Brauwissen. 
24:227-230. 100 Preparation of Musts and JuiCl! 
MARAIs, J. 1987. "Terpene concentrations and wine 
quality of Vitis vinifera L. cv. Gewiirztraminer as 
affected by grape maturity and cellar practices." 
Vitis 26:231-245. 
MAURER, R 1978. "Neue Gesichtspunkte bei der 
Weinklarung durch Sedimentation. Schonung 
und Separierung." Deut. Weinbau 33(13): 
496-502. 
MAURER, R, and F. MEIDINGER. 1976. "Einfluss von 
Schnecken- and Tankpressen auf die 
Mostzusammensetzung." Deut. Weinbau 
3I(II):372-377. 
MCWlLUAM, D.j., and C. S. OUGH. 1974. "Measure­
ment of ammonia in musts and wines using a 
selective electrode." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 25:67-72. 
MEIDINGER, F. 1978. "Die Entwicklung der 
Pressemtechnik bis zur pneumatischen Gross­
raumpresse mit Ergebnissen und Auswertungen 
vom Herbst 1977." Deut. Weinbau 
33(27): 1228-1232. 
MONK, P. R 1986. "Formation, utilization and ex­
cretion of hydrogen sulphide by wine yeast." 
Aust. N.Z. WineInd.]. 1(3):10-16. 
MUNYON, j. R, and C. W. NAGEL. 1977. "Compari­
son of methods of deacidification of musts and 
wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 28:79-87. 
MUNZ, TH. 1960. "Die Bindung des Ca-Doppel­
salzes der Wein- und Apfelsaure, die 
Moglichkeiten seiner Fallung durch CaC0 3 im 
Most." Weinberg und Keller. 7:239-247. 
MUNZ, TH. 1961. "Methoden zur prakischen Falung 
der Wein- und Apfelsaure als Ca-Doppelsalzes." 
Weinbe7g und Keller. 8:155-158. 
MURTAUGH, M. 1990. Calcium salt precipitation of 
malate and tartrate from model solutions, wines 
and juices. M.S. thesis, CA: University of Califor­
nia Davis. 
NAGEL, C. W., T. L. JOHNSON, and G. H. CARTER. 
1975. "Investigation of the methods of adjusting 
the acidity of wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 26:12-17. 
OUGH, C. S., and H. W. BERG. 1974. "The effect of 
two commercial pectic enzymes on grape musts 
and wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 25:208-211. 
OUGH, C. S. and E. A. CROWELL. 1979. "Pectic 
enzyme treatment of white grapes: Temperature, 
variety and skin contact factors." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 30:22-27. 
OUGH, C. S., M. DAVENPORT, and K JOSEPH. 1989. 
"Effects of certain vitamins on growth and fer­
mentation rate of active dry wine yeasts." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 40:208-213. PARK, S. K, j. C. MORRISON, D. O. ADAMS, and A. C. 
NOBLE. 1991. "Distribution offree and glycosidi­
cally bound monoterpenes in the skin and meso­
carp of Muscat of Alexandria grapes during de­
velopment."]' Agric. Food Chem. 39:514-518. 
PERI, C. 1987. "Les techniques de filtration tangen­
tielle des mouts et des vins." Bull. OJ.V. 
60:789-800. 
PERI, C., M. RIvA, and P. DEClO. 1988. "Cross-flow 
membrane filtration of wines: Comparison of 
performance of ultrafiltration, microfiltration 
and intermediate cut-<>ff membranes." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 39: 162- 168. 
PERSCHEID, M., and F. ZURN. 1977. "Der einfluss von 
Oxydationsvorgangen auf die Weinqualiriit." 
Weinwirt. 113:10-12. 
PETERSON, R G., and A. CAPUTI, JR. 1967. "The 
browning problem in wines. II. Ion exchange 
effects." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 18:105-112. 
PETERSON, R G., and G. R FUJII. 1969. "Two stage 
sequential ion exchange treatment." U.S. Patent 
3,437,491. 
RAMEY, D. D., A. BERTRAND, C. S. OUGH, V. L. 
SINGLETON, and E. SANDERS. 1986. "Effects of 
skin contact temperature on Chardonnay must 
and wine composition." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
37:99-106. 
RANKINE, B. C., K E. POCOCK, W. D. HARDY, j. C. 
KILGOUR, A. W. HOEY, and C. WEEKS. 1977. 
"Acidification of wine by ion exchange." Aust. 
Wine Brew. Spirit Rev. 96(10):42-46 
RAy, M. A. 1991. "The use of grape derived concen­
trate and aroma in winemaking." Aust. & N. Z. 
Wine Ind.]. 6:272-274. 
RlBEREAu-GAYON, P. 1985. "New developments in 
wine microbiology." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:1-10. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON,j., E. PEYNAUD, and M. LAFON. 1954. 
"Growth factors and secondary products of alco­
holic fermentation." Compo Rend. 
239:1549-1951. 
RICE, A. 1974. "Chemistry of winemaking from na­
tive American grapes varieties." In: The Chemistry 
of Winemaking. Am. Chern. Soc. Symposium Se­
ries. No. 137. Chapter 4, A. D. Webb, Ed., 
88-116. Washington, DC: Am. Chern. Soc. 
ROBERTSON, G. L. 1987. "The fractional extraction 
and quantitative determination of pectic sub­
stances in grapes and musts." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
30: 182- 186. SAYAVEDRA, L. A., and M. W. MONTGOMERY. 1986. 
"Inhibition of polyphenoloxidase by sulfite." ]. 
Food. Sci. 51:1531-1536. 
SCHANDERL. H. 1959. Die Mikrobiologie des Mostes und 
Weines, Stuttgart, Germany; Eugen Ulmer. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1987. "Oxygen with phenols and 
related reactions in musts, wines and model sys­
tems: Observations and practical implications." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:69-77. 
SINGLETON, V. L., H. A. SIEBERHAGEN, P. DE WET, 
and C. J. VAN WYK. 1975. "Composition and 
sensory qualities of wines prepared from white 
grapes by fermentation with and without grape 
solids." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 26:62-69. 
SINGLETON, V. L., J. ZAYA, E. TROUSDALE and M. 
SALGUES. 1984. "Caftaric acid in grapes and con­
version to a reaction product during processing." 
Vitis 23: 113-120. 
STEELE, J. T., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1978. "Deacidifica­
tion of musts from the western United States by 
the calcium double-salt precipitation process." 
Am.]' Enol. Vitic. 29:153-160. 
STEELE, J. T., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1979. "Deacidifica­
tion of high acid California wines by calcium 
double-salt precipitation." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
30:227-23l. 
TERCELj, D. 1965. "Etude des composes azotes du 
vin." Ann. Technol. Agric. 14:307-319. 
THOMPSON, D. 1991. "The application of osmotic 
distillation for the wine industry." Aust. Grape­
grower & Winemaker. 328: 11, 13-14. 
TRAVERSO-Rt:EDA, S., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1973. 
"Catecholase activity in grape juice and its im­
plications in winemaking." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
24:103-109. 
TROOST, G. 1980. Technologie des Weines, 5th ed. 
Stuttgart Germany: Ulmer. 
V A..'\I WYK, CJ. 1978. "The influence of juice clarifi­
cation on composition and quality of wines," 
Proc. 5th Inti. Denol. Symp., pp. 33-45. Auckland, 
New Zealand. Preparation of Musts and Juice 101 
VILLETTAZ, J.C., D. STEINER, and H. TROGUS. 1984. 
"The use of a beta-glucanase as an enzyme in 
wine clarification and filtration." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 35:253-256. 
WEIK, B. 1992. "Schubkolbenpresse contra Tank­
presse." Weinwirt. Technik. 7:16-19. 
WHITE, B. B. and C. S. OUGH. 1973. "Oxygen up­
take studies on grape juice." Am.]' Enol. Vitic. 
24:148-152. 
WILDENRADT, H. L. and V. L. SINGLETON. 1974. "The 
production of aldehydes as a result of polyphe­
nolic compounds and its relation to wine aging." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 25:119-126. 
WILLIAMS, J. T., C. S. OUGH, and H. W. BERG. 1978. 
"White wine composition and quality as influ­
enced by methods of must clarification." Am.]' 
Enol. Vitic. 29:92-96. 
WILLIAMS, P.J., C. R. STRAlJSS, and B. WILSON. 1980. 
"Hydroxylated linalool derivatives as precursors 
of volatile monoterpenes of Muscat grapes." ]. 
Agric. Food Chem. 28:766-77l. 
WILSON, B., C. R. STRAUSS, and P. J. WILLIAMS. 1986. 
"The distribution of free and glycosidically­
bound monoterpenes among skin, juice and pulp 
fractions of some white grape varieties." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 37:107-11l. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K. and H. DIETRICH. 1982. 
"Verbesserung der Filtrierfahigkeit von Weinen 
durch enzymatischen abbau von kohlenhy­
drathaltigen Kolloiden." Weinwirt. 23:598-603. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K. and H. DIETRICH. 1989. "Die 
Bedeutung der Kolloide fur die Klarung von 
Most und Wein." Mitt. Kloster. 44:1-12. 
WURDIG, G. 1988. "Doppelsalzent sauerung Hin­
weise zur Anwendung." Weinwirt. Technik 
124(2):6-1l. 
ZEPPONI, G. and T. COTTRELL. 1975. "White juice 
separation system." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
26: 154-157. CHAPTER 4 
YEAST AND BIOCHEMISTRY OF 
ETHANOL FERMENTATION 
The transformation of grape juice into wine is 
essentially a microbial process. As such, it is 
important for the enologist to have an under­
standing of yeast and fermentation biochem­
istry as the fundamental basis of the winemak­
ing profession. The alcoholic fermentation, 
the conversion of the principal grape sugars 
glucose and fructose to ethanol and carbon 
dioxide, is conducted by yeasts of the genus 
Saccharomyces, generally by S. cerevisiae and S. 
bayanus. The current use of the old term 
bayanus for the yeast closely related to S. cere­
visiae is controversial (see Section A3c); but we 
expect bayanus to become once more an ac­
cepted appellation (Vaughn-Martini and 
Kurtzman 1985). 
A. DEFINITION, ORIGINS, AND 
IDENTIFICATION OF WINE-RELATED 
YEASTS 
1. Definition of Wine-Related Yeasts 
By wine-related we mean those yeasts which 
have been found on grapes or in vineyards; in 
102 wines, table or dessert, sound or spoiled; or 
associated with wineries or winery equipment. 
Comprehensive listings of these organisms 
have been published (Amerine and Kunkee 
1968; Kunkee and Amerine 1970; Kunkee and 
Bisson 1993). The taxonomies of the wine-re­
lated yeast genera given in this section are 
based on these listings, and include some 18 
genera-the more obscure and rare being 
omitted. 
Wild yeasts are those non-Saccharomyces fer­
mentative yeasts found on grapes, which may 
take part, if not hindered, in wine fermenta­
tions, at least at the outset, and include Kloeck­
era, Hanseniaspora ,Debaryomyces, Hansenula, and 
Metschnikowia. Wine yeasts then are the many 
strains of Saccharomyces, which not only can 
carry out a complete fermentation of grape 
juice, or other high sugar-containing medium, 
but also provide the fermented product with 
pleasant, winelike flavors and odors. Species of 
Schizosaccharomyces can also completely ferment 
grape juice, and in special cases they have 
been suggested as wine yeast substitutes for 
Saccharomyces; however, more often than not, the fermentations produced by Schizosaccha­
romyces are unappealing. Using the above sub­
jective definition for wine yeast, several other 
genera could also be included: Brettanomyces, 
Dekkera, and Zygosaccharomyces. 
We make these distinctions between wild 
yeasts and wine yeasts for convenience; it would 
be just as sensible to call "wild yeasts" those 
yeasts which have never been isolated and 
grown in vitro and placed in laboratory stor­
age conditions, and wine yeasts could mean all 
wine-related yeasts. Furthermore, we are not 
using the term wild yeasts, in the genetically 
correct way to indicate the parent strain from 
which various mutant strains have been 
derived. 
2. Origins of Wine-Related Yeast 
The presence of many yeast genera on grapes 
in the vineyard at ripeness has long been 
established (Amerine and Kunkee 1968; Kun­
kee and Amerine 1970). Indeed electron scan 
microphotographs of the surface of grape skins 
showing distinct and intact bipolar budding 
yeast have been made (Belin 1972; Belin and 
Henry 1972). The presence of multilateral 
budding wine yeasts also on grapes has been 
supposed for as long. There are many reports 
of the presence of strains of S. cerevisiae on 
grape skins, but generally these have either 
been vague as to actual numbers or have been 
the result of enrichment culturing. For enrich­
ment culturing, whole berries, or skin wash­
ings, are used to inoculate a selective nutrient 
broth. The presence of wine yeast in the incu­
bated medium indicates that at least one vi­
able yeast cell was initially present. These rea­
sonable assumptions have lead to extensive 
written and oral speculations, anecdotally 
based, on the importance of both wild yeasts 
and wine yeasts found on the grapes with 
respect to subsequent natural fermentations. It 
has been advocated by others that the distinct 
characteristics of wines from various long­
established, and often famous, wineries come 
from the yeast in residence in the vineyards 
associated with wineries. The wild yeasts are Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 103 
thought to provide their own special flavor 
nuances before being overwhelmed by the 
wine yeasts, and the wine yeasts add their own 
distinctive flavor notes. Both of these postures 
are now generally discredited, with some pos­
sible exceptions (Bisson and Kunkee 1991). 
Alternatively there has been a renewal of 
the suggestion that perhaps there are no wine 
yeasts on the grapes at all (Martini and Martini 
1990), and that the inoculations in a natural 
fermentation come from yeast indigenous in 
the winery (see below). It is true that most of 
the evidence for wine yeast actually present on 
the skins of ripe berries comes from enrich­
ment culture studies. Furthermore, we have 
demonstrated long delays in commencement 
of fermentations of juice from grapes pre­
pared outside the winery, whereas when the 
juices from the same grapes were prepared 
(stemmed and crushed) in the winery, there 
was little delay in the start of the fermentation. 
The question arises, how does the yeast be­
come resident in the winery? The answer is 
essentially the same as for the infections of 
wineries by spoilage yeast and bacteria 
(Chapter 9); but it is based on the simple idea 
that whenever there is an environment favor­
able enough for the survival or growth of a 
microorganism, given enough time, the popu­
lation will become established. 
We have demonstrated the presence of 
strains of S. cerevisiae on skins of ripe grapes 
without resorting to enrichment culturing. The 
main difficulty with this kind of demonstration 
is that the number of wine yeasts cells is so low 
that the grape skins must themselves be ap­
plied directly to the solid nutrient medium; or 
a minimal volume of liquid must be used to 
wash the surface of the grapes, and then plated, 
that is, spread directly onto solid medium. The 
problem comes from the great susceptibility of 
the plating method to contamination by molds, 
which are fast growing. The growth of a single 
mold cell on a plate can overrun any other 
colonies within a day or two. For the demon­
stration of the presence of wild yeast, such as 
Kloeckera or Hansenula, which are there in 
much higher numbers, samples from the 104 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
grapes can be greatly diluted so that the chance 
of getting even a single mold cell on a plate is 
substantially diminished. Chemicals such as 
biphenyl and thymol have been touted as use­
ful for prevention on mold growth under these 
conditions, but we have not found them to be 
effective. Rather, we have developed a wine 
yeast selective medium, containing sorbate and 
ethanol (Appendix F), which, when incubated 
mildly anaerobically, will (after some two 
weeks' delay) allow the formation of wine yeast 
colonies. Further identification needs to be 
made because this method could also allow for 
the growth of Brettanomyces (and presumably 
Dekkera), Schizosaccharomyces, and Zygosaccha­
romyces. 
3. Identification of Wine-Related Yeasts 
It is important to be able to identity the genus 
and species of wine-related yeasts in order to 
compare them and their contribution to a 
given wine or winery, to assess problems aris­
ing during fermentation and microbial 
spoilage, and to evaluate different yeasts as 
inocula. 
a. The Taxonomy of the Wine-Related 
Yeasts 
The key to the identification of wine-related 
yeast genera used below is derived from Yeast 
-A Taxonomy (Kreger-van Rij 1984). Both this 
edition and the previous editions (Lodder and 
Kreger-van Rij 1952; Lodder 1970) rely almost 
exclusively on morphological and physiologi­
cal tests for assignment of the various charac­
teristics to the genera, making it relatively easy 
to carry out the identification in a microbio­
logically equipped winery laboratory. The tax­
onomy of the earlier editions is often obsolete, 
but contains a lot of important historical and 
descriptive material not compiled elsewhere. 
The wine-related yeasts are included in the 
Ascomycetes and the Deuteromycetes yeast classes, 
but not in the Basidiomycetes. The former two 
classes either produce sexual spores and have 
sexual forms of reproduction, or lack both of 
these features. None of the Basidiomycetes, hav-ing sexual reproduction without sexual spores, 
is included in this special grouping of wine-re­
lated yeasts (with the possible exception of an 
unusual species of Cryptococcus, C. laurentii) 
(Kurtzman 1973). 
The yeasts are not grouped together as a 
taxon, but generally are defined as unicellular 
fungi (Hawksworth et al. 1983). The fungi are 
distinguished from the other eucaryote 
(nucleated) microorganisms, protozoa, and al­
gae, by having rigid cell walls and no photo­
synthetic pigments, and from bacteria by hav­
ing a membrane-bound nucleus. Without be­
ing stained, the yeast nucleus cannot be seen 
in the light microscope. However, the distinc­
tion between wine-related yeast and bacteria 
comes easily with experience since in most 
cases yeasts are much larger. 
A dichotomous key for organism identifica­
tion is based upon the deceptively simple con­
cept of answering a series of questions regard­
ing the traits or characteristics of the organism 
under study. The answers to these questions 
are mutually exclusive, that is, the organism 
either will or will not possess a given trait. 
Some traits carry more weight than others in 
taxonomy, depending upon the number and 
different kinds of genes predicted to be re­
quired for the given characteristic. For exam­
ple, spore shape and type is under the control 
of many genes and is, therefore, a primary 
distinguishing taxonomic character. In con­
trast, the ability to utilize a particular carbon 
source may reflect a difference in a single 
gene. The questions posed of the key must be 
asked in proper sequence in order to reach 
the appropriate identification. 
In the scheme presented here for yeast 
genus identification, the first tests, that is the 
first key questions, have to do with cellular 
morphology, followed immediately by the 
question of sexual spore-forming capability. 
Important distinction is made by taxonomists 
between the yeasts which form sexual spores 
(the perfect, that is, complete yeast), as com­
pared to those which do not (the imperfect, or 
incomplete). The main problem is the estab­
lishment that no spores are apparent. Yeast taxonomists are loath to assign imperfect sta­
tus unless fully convinced that all efforts to 
find spores have been made. A pragmatic trick 
is to examine the description of the suspected 
genus in one of the taxonomy texts given 
above to discover what might be the corre­
sponding perfect genus of the yeast in ques­
tion, if known (some information in Table 4-1 
may be helpful). The investigator should then 
be satisfied that spore formation tests were 
carried out as has been described successfully 
for the perfect form. Many other structural, 
but nonsexual, spores can be important for 
the genus identification, but they do not have 
the primary importance of the sexual spores. 
In all tests, it is imperative that both positive 
and negative controls be conducted. Poorly 
made media or inaccurate incubation condi­
tions may yield false results. The accuracy of 
the test is readily known if well-characterized 
yeasts are run simultaneously and yield the 
predicted results. 
b. Genus Identification of the 
Wine-Related Yeasts 
Our key (Table 4-2) for identification of the 
genera of the wine-related yeast is an abridg­
ment from the definitive yeast taxonomy edited 
by Kreger-van Rij (1984), and gives unambigu­
ous identifications. However, some of the mor­
phological tests, such as those indicating the 
nominal life cycles as being either diploid or 
haploid, and whether conjugation takes place 
immediately preceding ascus formation (or 
not), are rather demanding and may be dif­
ficult to interpret for workers without experi­
ence. This is especially true for distinguishing 
between the genera Torulaspara, Debaryomyces, 
Pichia, Zygosaccharomyces, and Saccharomyces. We 
have provided an additional key (Table 4-3), 
which relies on further physiological tests and 
removes these difficulties. The reader is ad­
monished to bear in mind that the keys pre­
sented here are appropriate only for wine-re­
lated yeast genera; and the key in Table 4-3 is 
applicable only to those genera which have 
not been eliminated in application of the tests Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 105 
given in Table 4-2-to that point in the key, 
namely, "asci persistent." 
As with any microbiological identification 
efforts, it is imperative that the organism to be 
identified is a pure culture and is free from 
contaminating organisms. Procedures for iso­
lation and purification of cultures are given in 
Chapter 9. 
Table 4-4 gives various yeast genera which 
can be used as controls. For example, to deter­
mine whether a subject yeast will form a pelli­
cle or not, besides testing the unknown yeast, 
a genus known to produce a pellicle, such as 
Pichia, should be used as a positive control. 
Also, one known not to produce a pellicle, 
such as Saccharomyces, should be used as a 
negative control. For our key, unless otherwise 
indicated, spores refer to sexual spores (ascos­
pores). Once an identification is made, a stan­
dard taxonomic description of the genus 
should be consulted for confirmation. 
1. Type of Cell Division. The first identifi­
cation tests are morphological, the determina­
tion of the type of vegetative cell division 
(nonsexual division). This gives rise to a three­
way split in this otherwise dichotomous key. 
For these tests the cultures must be in a grow­
ing phase and sometimes need to be exam­
ined microscopically within a day after inocu­
lation on solid medium. The type of cell divi­
sion is given as either fission, bipolar budding, 
or multilateral budding (see Figure 4-1), and 
are described below. 
Colonial morphology should also be noted. 
The color may be an important characteristic 
to be used later in the key, and the size and 
shape of the colonies can be important con­
firmatory characteristics. 
Fission yeast divide in the same manner as 
most bacteria, at the position of a newly formed 
perpendicular septum, giving rise to two new 
individuals. For identification purposes, the 
yeast fission process is different from that in 
the bacteria. The progress of the division can 
be readily noted using light microscopy, the 
two progeny cells giving a zipper-like separa­
tion (see Fig. 4-1a). Fission yeast can be classi-106 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Table 4-1. Species of wine-related yeasts. 1 
Species in 
Genus 
4 
6 
6 
2 
9 
30 
6 
51 
11 
3 
9 
8 Genus 
Schizosaccharomyces 
Kloeckera 
Saccharomycodes 
Hanseniaspora 
Dekkera 
Brettanomyces 
Hansenula 
Metschnikowia 
Pichia 
Kluyveromyces 
Torulaspora 
Debaryomyces 
Zygosaccharomyces Wine-related 
Species 
japonicus 
var. japonicus 
var. varsatilis 
apiculata 
corticis 
japonica 
ludwigii 
osmophila 
uvarum 
vall7yensis 
Imtxellensis 
intermedia 
anomalus 
Imtxellensis 
claussenii 
custersianus 
custersii 
intermedius 
lammcus 
anomala 
faiJrianii 
jadinii 
subpelliculosa 
pulcherrima 
delftensis 
fermentans 
kluyveri 
membranaefaciens 
marxianus 
var. bulgaricus 
var. vanudenii 
var. wikenii 
termotolerans 
dellmteckii 
hansenii 
bailii 
msporus 
cidri 
flnrentinus 
microellipsoideus 
rouxii Corresponding 
Perfect Species 
Hansenaspora uvarum 
H. osmophila 
H. vall7yensis 
D. Imtxellensis 
D. intermedia Table 4-1. (Continued) 
Species in 
Genus 
7 
19 
8 
196 Genus 
Saccharomyces 
Cryptococcus 
Rhodotorula 
Candida Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fennentation 107 
Wine-related 
Species 
cenroisiae 
[baynanus]2 
17 races2 
laurentii 
apicola 
beechii 
boidinii 
cantrellii 
colliculosa 
dattila 
diversa 
hellenica 
humilis 
incummunis 
intermedia 
kefjer 
krusei 
lambica 
mesenterica 
mogii 
pelliculosa 
pulcherrima 
sake 
sorboxylosa 
spandovensis 
stellata 
utilis 
valida 
vanderwaltii 
vartiovaarai 
veronae 
vinaria 
vini Corresponding 
Perfect Species 
T. delbrueckii 
K. termotolerans 
P. fermentans 
Z. rouxii 
Hansenula jadinii 
M. pulcherrima 
H ansenula jadinii 
P. membranaefaciens 
lAs defined, but also includes species found within other (nonmilk) fermented beverages, such as beer and its production 
equipment-but not barley itself. 
2S. bayanus is not currently a bona fide species designation, but is expected to become one with the next edition of the Yeast-A 
Taxonomy. In the meantime, it is given as a race S. cerevisiae. 
3Species of Rhodotorula are not actual wine-related yeasts but are often found as a wine microbiological laboratory contaminants. 
fied automatically as Schizosaccharomyces, as this 
is the only genus of wine-related yeast with this 
mode of division. The microscopic appearance 
of these yeasts is usually enough for classifica­
tion, since they have a characteristic rectangu­
lar appearance. This is the only genus of the 
wine-related yeasts that will produce a true mycelium (see below), with straight perpendic­
ular septa. The rectangular appearance is not 
easily confused with the kind of rectangular 
appearance sometimes found in a small por­
tion of Brettanomyces and Dekkera yeast (see 
below). Furthermore, Schizosaccharomyces are 
always rather large, and not easily confused 108 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Table 4-2. Key to the wine-related yeast genera. 
I. Fission: Schizosaccharomyces 
II. Bipolar budding (on broad base) 
A. No spores: Kloeckera 
B. With spores 
1. Spores spherical and smooth (conjugation in ascus): Saccharomycodes 
2. Spores hat-or helmet-shaped (no conjugation in ascus): Hanseniaspora 
III. Multilateral budding 
A. Strong acetic acid from glucose, resistant to cycloheximide, some cells 
ogival, pungent odor on old plates, colonies clear CaC0 3 
1. Spores found: Dekkera 
2. Spores not found: Brettanomyces (may form nonseptate mycelia) 
B. NotA 
1. Spores found 
a. Nitrate assimilated: Hansenula 
b. Nitrate not assimilated 
I. Spores needle-shaped: Metschnikowia 
ii. Spores hat-or saturn-shaped: Pichia 
iii. Spores reni- or crescentiform: Kluyveromyces 
iv. Spores spherical or ellipsoidal 
(1) Asci dehiscent: Kluyveromyces or Pichia 
(fermentation: vigorous weak or absent-see p. 114) 
(2) Asci persistent 
(a) Conjugation immediately preceding ascus 
formation!: Torulaspora, Debaryomyces, Pichia, Zygosaccharomyces 
(b) Conjugation after ascus formation!: Saccharomyces 
2. No spores found 
a. Colonies pink or red 
I. Inositol assimilated: Cryptococcus 
ii. Inositol not assimilated: Rhodotorula 
b. Colonies not pink or red 
'See Table 4-3. i. No arthrospores; inositol assimilated: (no pseudo mycelium): Cryptococcus 
ii. Not i: Candida 
Table 4-3. A taxonomic key to wine-related asci-persistent yeast genera. 
This table draws distinctions between the several asci-persisten t genera: Torulaspora, Debaryomyces, Pichia, 
Zygosaccharomyces, and Saccharomyces. 
Pellicle Assimilation of 
formation Fermentation Cadaverine Lysine 
Pichia + weak 
Debaryomyces weak 
Zygosaccharomyces strong + + 
Sacch. kluyveri strong + + 
Sacch. unisporus strong + + 
Torulaspora strong + 
Other Saccharomyces strong Sucrose 
+ Table 4-4. Yeast taxonomic identification examples. 
Mycelium development 
mycelium: Schizosaccharomyces japonicus 
pseudomycelium: Candida vini 
loose budding cells: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
nonseptate mycelium: Brettanomyces spp. 
Pellicle development 
positive: film in five days: Pichia fermentans 
negative: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Morphology 
cell shape: oval~Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
apiculate~Kloeckera apiculata 
ogive~Dekkera intermedia 
colored colony: red~Rhodotorula ruiJra 
pink~Sporobolomyces salmonicolor 
division: multilateral budding~Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
bipolar budding~Saccharomycodes ludwigii 
Kloechera apiculata 
fission~Schizosaccharomyces pombe 
Ascospore formation: Persistent: Saccharomyces spp.; 
Dehiscent: Pichia spp. 
On wort or Gorodkowa: Saccharomycodes ludwigii, 
Pichia fermentans 
On Gorodkowa: Hanseniaspora vallYyensia 
On V-8: Hansenula anomala, Pichiafermentans 
On acetate: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
On wort: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Ballistospore formation 
On wort: Sporobolomyces salmonicolor 
Ploidy 
Conjugation immediately precedes ascospore 
formation: Torulaspora pretoriensis 
Conjugation does not immediately precede ascospore 
formation: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Fermentation 
glucose positive: Saccharomyces spp. 
glucose negative: Rhodotorula ruiJra 
Nitrate assimilation 
positive: Hansenula spp. 
negative: Saccharomyces spp. 
Cycloheximide ("Actidione") sensitivity (100 mg/L) 
sensitive: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
resistant: Dekkera intermedia 
Lysine assimilation 
positive: Zygosaccharomyces bailii 
negative: Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
with bacteria, even with the latter's fission 
mode of division. 
Vegetative cell division of budding yeast can 
also be observed with the light microscope. 
The newly forming progeny cell has the ap­
pearance of an extrusion of the parent cell, 
becoming larger and larger until it is of nearly Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 109 
the same size and is excised. In contrast with 
the fission process, the budding division does 
not give rise to two new individuals, but rather 
one parent and one progeny cell. With an 
electron-scanning microscopy, one can detect 
the circular ridges of chitinous material indi­
cating bud scars and birth scars. Budding may 
be either bipolar or multilateral. 
Bipolar budding cells have a distinctive 
apiculate, or lemon-shaped appearance, and it 
seems natural for the budding to take place at 
one end of the cell or the other (Figure 4-1 b). 
The multilaterally budding cells are often 
somewhat ellipsoidal and when both ends have 
become the seats of the budding process, the 
next buds will form randomly on the surface 
(Figure 4-1 C), not at the ends as with bipolar 
budding. Bipolar budding is on a broad base, 
the diameter of the progeny bud approaching 
that of the parent very early. Multilateral bud­
ding is on a narrow base which appears as a 
restriction nearly from the outset until the end 
of the budding cycle. For the wine-related 
taxonomy, bipolar budding yeasts can auto­
matically be classified either as Kloeckera, 
Hanseniaspora, or Saccharomycodes, depending 
upon their spore-forming abilities. 
The use of electron scan microscopy also 
reveals an important difference between these 
two kinds of budding. The bud scars from 
bipolar budding are formed concentrically, as 
compared to the broadcast positions of those 
of the multilaterally budding yeast. The notion 
that the death of the parent cell takes place 
when, and as a result of, the utilization of all 
the surface area as fresh budding sites has 
been discredited (Jazwinski 1993). 
As mentioned above, a portion of cells of 
Brettanomyces or Dekkera genera sometimes ap­
pear as rather large rectangles, compared to 
the other cells (Figure 4-1d). These cells usu­
ally form buds, maybe more than one at a 
time, at the end of the rectangle. Thus, the 
descriptions of budding patterns as given above 
may sometimes seem to be imprecise. How­
ever, the great majority of the budding cells in 
these cases show rather typical multilateral 
budding and any ambiguity is easily resolved. 110 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
(a) (b ) 
(c) (d) 
Fig. 4-1. Yeast cell and cell division morphologies. (a) fission-Schizosa ccharomyces; (b) bipolar 
budding-Kloeckera; (c) multilateral budding-Saccharomyces ; (d) multilateral budding-Bret­
tanomyces (rectangular and ogive shapes); (e) Zygosaccharomyces conjugation ("dumbbell" 
shape). (Fig. 4-1a reprinted by permission of the publishers of The Life of Yeasts: Their Nature, 
Activity, Ecology and Relation to Mankind by H. J. Phaff, M. W. Miller and E. M. Mrak, 
Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, Copyright © 1966, 1978 by the President and 
Fellows of Harvard College.) (e) 
Fig. 4-1. (Continued). 
II. Sporulation. The cells of wine strains 
of Saccharomyces are generally diploid during 
the vegetative cycle; that is, they have two sets 
of each of their 16 chromosomes. The chro­
mosomes are invisible under the light micro­
scope and are located in a transparent nu­
cleus. However, the sporulation process is quite 
visible in the light microscope, especially with 
the use of phase-contrast optics (Figure 4-2). 
The following description of the sporulation 
process oversimplifies the far greater under­
standing which modern yeast physiologists and 
geneticists enjoy (Esposito and Klapholz 1981), 
but is suitable for our purposes. 
The sexual cell cycle is a reductive, meiotic 
division-one partner of each chromosome 
pair going to each new primeval spore-fol­
lowed by a mitotic division. This results in four 
new haploid entities-now called ascospores­
all contained within the original cell wall. The 
cell wall has undergone a change, seeming to 
lose some of its rigidity and more or less 
circumscribing the four new ascospores. The 
ascus wall becomes weaker, and eventually Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation III 
Fig. 4-2. Saccharomyces Spores (Reprinted by permission 
of the publishers of The Life of Yeasts: Their Nature, Activity, 
Ecology and Relation to Mankind by H. J. Phaff, M. W. Miller 
and E. M. Mrak, Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University 
Press, Copyright 
© 1966, 1978 by the President and Fellows of Harvard 
College.) 
breaks open, or dehisces, releasing the as­
cospores. This can be seen with the light mi­
croscope. The four spores are of two sexual 
types, called a and 0'. Mter some time, and 
after certain defined and well-studied condi­
tions, these haploid cells of the two opposite 
mating types may conjugate (mate) and be­
come a single, new diploid cell, continuing its 
life cycle in the vegetative, budding mode. 
There are many variations on this theme, some 
of which are important for our taxonomic 
decision-making, and are discussed appropri­
ately below. At this stage, it is important to 
note that the formation of the ascospore is 
relatively easy to observe with the light micro­
scope. Spore stains are available (Bartholomew 112 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
and Mittwer 1950), but phase-contrast optics is 
more than a satisfactory substitute. Wine strains 
of S. eerevisiae are generally homothallic. For 
us homothallie indicates that the haploid yeast 
cell/spore resulting from sporulation is capa­
ble of self-fertilization. Following cell division, 
the haploid parent cell changes mating type 
while the haploid progeny cell does not. The 
parent and progeny cells mate and become 
diploid. In contrast, a heterothallic yeast is one 
which cannot switch mating type and will re­
main haploid during vegetative growth unless 
it comes in contact with a haploid of the 
opposite mating type. 
Sexual spore formation, at least in the 
wine-related yeasts, is usually induced by first 
growing the cells on a rich medium, and then 
transferring them to a poorer one, or at least 
to one of a different formulation. Several 
sporulation media are available (Appendix F). 
It is suggested that they all be used. We have 
found it most convenient to use solid media, 
starting the yeast growth on a yeast mold (or 
wort) medium for one or two days, then trans­
ferring the culture to a sporulation medium. 
Rather unusual materials have also been used 
for sporulation, such as vegetable slices or 
gypsum blocks. We have generally not needed 
to resort to these for sporulation of wine-re­
lated yeasts. 
Cells on sporulation media should be exam­
ined at least daily for the presence of spores. If 
microscopic examinations are made too infre­
quently, the cells may go through the sporula-
006) tion process and return to the vegetative mode 
without notice. Alternatively, inoculations can 
be made on a daily basis and microscopic 
examination of the spores made at one sitting. 
In addition to noting the formation of spores, 
the shapes of the spores also need to be 
recorded. The following descriptive shapes and 
textures are important in the identification 
procedures used here: spherical, hat-shaped, 
helmet-shaped, Saturn-shaped, needle-shaped, 
reniform (kidney-shaped), crescent-shaped, or 
ellipsoidal; and whether smooth, warty, or with 
ridges (Figure 4-3). While these names seem 
whimsical, they are not only rather accurate 
descriptions of the varieties of spore shapes 
that can be found, but are operative in our 
taxonomic identification (see Table 4-2). The 
number of spores, the timing of spore devel­
opment, and the induction medium used may 
be helpful confirmatory information. 
Bipolar genera are distinguished by their 
ability to form sexual spores, and by the shapes 
of the spores formed (Table 4-2). Kloeekera are 
nonspore formers; Saeeharomyeodes form spher­
ical and smooth spores; and Hanseniaspora 
form hat- or helmet-shaped spores. The re­
maining wine-related genera show multilateral 
budding. 
m. Multilateral-Budding Acetic Acid Produc­
ers. The next two genera in the scheme (Ta­
ble 4-2), Dekkera and Brettanomyees, are distin­
guished from the other genera by their forma­
tions of obvious amounts of acetic acid. The 
FIg. 4-3. Shapes of yeats spores: Left to right: spheroidal, ovoidal, kidney- or 
bean-shaped, crescent- or sickle-shaped, hat-shaped, helmet-shaped, spheroidal with 
warty surface, walnut-shaped, Saturn-shaped, spheroidal with spiny surface, arcuate, 
needle-shaped with appendage (Reprinted by permission of the publishers of The Life 
of Yeasts: Their Nature, Activity, Ecology and Relation to Mankind by H. J. Phaff, M. W. 
Miller and E. M. Mrak, Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, Copyright 
© 1966, 1978 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College.) amounts formed are large enough to bring 
about lethal conditions for the yeast when this 
end product is locally concentrated (as when 
colonies are grown on a solid medium). A 
diagnostic test for this characteristic employs 
malt agar containing calcium carbonate. The 
carbonate suspended in the medium is dis­
solved by the formation of the acetic acid. An 
easily observed translucent ring forms around 
the yeast colony. Other acids may also be 
formed, some more typically associated with 
spoilage odors from these yeast, such as bu­
tyric acid. The use of calcium carbonate serves 
an additional purpose besides the diagnostic 
one-it protects the yeast colony from the 
lethally acid milieu. Strains of these two gen­
era are routinely maintained on calcium car­
bonate-containing media for storage in culture 
collections. 
While the above methodology is diagnosti­
cally accurate, another screening method is 
more commonly used for Brettanomyces and 
Dekkera. Both genera are resistant to the fungi­
cide cycloheximide. Colonial growth on solid 
medium in the presence of 3 to 25 mgjL of 
cycloheximide can be considered presumptive 
evidence of these genera. However, since 
species of other genera are also resistant to 
cycloheximide, confirmatory evidence is 
needed. The use of lOO mgjL is a better 
diagnostic test, but here the colonial growth 
may take some 10 to 14 days, as compared to 
two or three days with the lower concentra­
tions. For screening, especially for Bret­
tanomyces as a spoilage yeast, sometimes both 
calcium carbonate and the lower concentra­
tions of cycloheximide are used, giving good 
diagnosis and maintenance. 
In addition to the above diagnoses, two 
confirmatory morphological tests are also of­
ten used for Brettanomyces and Dekkera. A sub­
stantial number of the cells of these genera 
have a characteristic ogive shape at one end of 
the cell, giving an outline suggesting a gothic 
arch (Figure 4-1d). Electron scan photomicro­
graphs show these pointed ends apparently 
result from distal, but adjacent bud scars 
(Ilagan 1979). Confirmatory evidence for Bret-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 113 
tanomyces, but apparently not Dekkera, is the 
formation of nonseptate mycelia in the 
mycelium test (see below, p 115). 
Ability to form sexual spores differentiates 
Brettanomyces and Dekkera. The detection of 
spore formers, here, is more difficult than as 
described above for Saccharomyces. In fact, the 
recognition of Dekkera as a sporulating form of 
Brettanomyces came about only relatively re­
cently. The spores do not appear as a quadru­
plet package as described above, but rather as 
two hat-shaped cells attached to a structure 
having the superficial appearance of an eye­
ball (Ilagan 1979). This is especially notable 
after the ascus has begun to dehisce and the 
coupled spores are partly or completely ex­
truded, best seen with electron scan optics. 
Spore formation for Dekkera is favored under 
aerobic, high-temperature conditions (Ilagan 
1979), and would not be expected to take 
place in wine. Although Dekkera have been 
isolated from wine, it is not clear whether this 
genus, in addition to Brettanomyces, should be 
considered a serious wine spoilage organism 
(Chapter 9). 
IV. Multilateral Budding Sporulating 
Nitrate-Positive Assimilators. The remainder of 
our key divides itself into large sections con­
cerned with yeasts which form spores and those 
which do not. The next test is a physiological 
one showing whether the yeast can assimilate, 
that is, grow on nitrate. For some steps in 
other yeast taxonomy keys, it is important to 
determine if various other nitrogenous forms, 
such as amino acids, simple peptides, or pro­
teins, can also be assimilated. For those kinds 
of determinations, an auxanogram (Kreger-van 
Rij 1984) can be used. A simpler test, solely for 
nitrate assimilation is used here. A liquid 
medium, with nitrate as the only nitrogen 
source, is prepared. The medium is inocu­
lated, under rigidly standardized conditions, 
with a loop of a diluted suspension of the yeast 
in question. One looks for turbidity in the 
medium after several days. A negative control 
medium, having no nitrogen source, and a 
positive one, having ammonium as the nitro-114 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
gen source, are also employed. All yeasts will 
assimilate the latter. In some cases, the nega­
tive control will register turbidity, the yeast 
apparently obtaining assimilable nitrogen from 
the inoculum. In these cases, a second tube of 
each of the nitrogen sources-nitrate, ammo­
nium, and no nitrogen-needs to be inocu­
lated from the corresponding initial tube and 
checked for growth after several days. 
The inexperienced taxonomist is warned 
again that it is imperative to follow the key 
(Table 4-2) step by step, until a dead end 
indicates the genus has been identified. That 
is to say, nitrate assimilation itself does not 
automatically indicate the presence of 
Hansenula; some species of the genera listed 
above and below this part of the key are also 
nitrate positive. 
V. Multilateral Budding Sporulating Nitrate­
Negative Assimilators. At this stage (Table 4-2), 
the shapes of the spores of the nitrate-negative 
assimilating yeast become important. If nee­
dle-shaped, the genus is Metschnikowia; if hat­
or Saturn-shaped, the genus is Pichia; and if 
reniform or crescent-shaped, the genus is 
Kluyveromyces. Note the key is redundant at this 
point and the latter two genera may be en­
countered again below. 
If the spores are spherical or ellipsoidal, 
whether the ascus is dehiscent or persistent is 
important. These are relative terms, since even 
the persistent yeast will eventually dehisce their 
contents-of ascospores. By dehiscent we 
mean that the ascus wall becomes very friable 
and tends to release the newly formed as­
cospores quickly. In this case it is difficult to 
find intact asci with its four or so ascospores as 
described above. Instead, one finds under the 
light microscope the released ascospores, ei­
ther as single cells, or in some cases as conju­
gating pairs, and the empty ghosts of the for­
mer asci. With the persistent situation, the 
ascus wall is less likely to fragment early, and 
the microscopic appearance shows a high pro­
portion of the asci with the spores still intact. 
Again timing is important; and the sporulation 
media need to be examined frequently. In the case of dehiscent yeast, the next test 
is to determine if the yeast is capable of fer­
mentation. If it can ferment at all, it will 
ferment glucose. The distinction between fer­
menting yeast and respiring yeast is not exact 
and often it is a question of the conditions. 
Many of the wine-related yeasts are facultative. 
Lagunas (1979) showed that even under strict 
respiratory conditions, with low concentra­
tions of glucose so that the Crabtree effect is 
not in place, some of the sugar is catabolized 
by the fermentation pathway-incomplete ox­
idation to ethanol rather than to carbon diox­
ide and water. An operating definition of fer­
mentation here is the anaerobic formation of 
gas. This test is simply an inoculation of glu­
cose medium containing an inverted (Durham) 
tube. The inverted Durham tube floating on 
the medium will be submerged after the 
medium has been autoclaved. Any gases 
trapped in the tube after inoculation will nec­
essarily have been produced from yeast at the 
bottom of the tube, that is, anaerobically. In 
the glucose fermentation test, Kluyveromyces 
will give rapid fermentation, filling the in­
verted tube with gas within several days, 
whereas Pichia will give hardly any gas forma­
tion. The assignment should be made using 
proper control examples, of course. It must be 
noted that the glucose fermentation test is not 
a test of assimilation; growth, as indicated by 
turbidity, will most certainly be noted-it is 
the formation of gas, carbon dioxide, that is 
operative. 
In the case of the asci-persistent yeast, a 
further difficult point in relying on morpho­
logical traits is reached in this taxonomic 
scheme (Table 4-2), where conjugation "im­
mediately preceding ascus formation" or 
"after ascus formation" must be noted. Four 
genera of wine-related yeasts, Torulaspora, De­
baryomyces, Pichia, and Zygosaccharomyces fall 
into the first category, and Saccharomyces falls 
into the second. Fortunately, physiological tests 
are available (Table 4-3), the application of 
which overrides the need for the difficult de­
termination of the conjugation schedule. 
These physiological tests are not to be applied for identification for all yeast with persistent 
asci, but only those for which the other genera 
have been eliminated; that is, they only in­
clude the multilateral budding, non-nitrate as­
similating yeasts which form spherical or ellip­
soidal spores. An important physiological test 
here is to determine whether the yeasts form a 
pellicle or not, which can be determined in 
conjunction with the glucose fermentation test. 
The pellicle is the formation of an obvious 
surface film of yeast, which can actually be­
come quite thick after several days of incuba­
tion. This indicates that the yeasts are using 
aerobic metabolism, and in this case Pichia are 
distinguished from the rest in the group (Ta­
ble 4-3). The qualification of several days is 
important since many fermentative yeasts will 
form a thin surface film after several weeks. 
The next distinguishing feature is the vigor of 
glucose fermentation, already discussed. A 
weak fermentation segregates Debaryomyces 
from the remainder. 
Assimilation tests are then used to identifY 
the last three genera of this grouping. We 
have mentioned the assimilation of nitrate as a 
sole nitrogen source. For the tests here, the 
assimilation of cadaverine and lysine are tested 
in the place of nitrate, and with the same 
admonitions concerning the use of proper 
controls. Zygosaccharomyces assimilates (grows 
on) both cadaverine and lysine, Torulaspora 
assimilates lysine, and most species of Saccha­
romyces assimilate neither. Two species of Sac­
charomyces will assimilate both of these nitro­
gen sources, S. kluyveri and S. unisporus, but 
these would rarely be encountered. The sepa­
ration of these two species from Zygosaccha­
romyces can be made by use of a half dozen 
additional physiological tests involving assimi­
lation of sugars, growth on various concentra­
tions of cycloheximide, and growth at high 
temperature (Kreger-van Rij 1984). However, a 
morphological test can be used instead. Strains 
of Zygosaccharomyces grown on malt agar so 
readily conjugate before ascus formation, that 
microscopic examination typically shows the 
conjugated forms, resembling dumbbells (Fig­
ure 4-1e). This feature can be used to distin-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 115 
guish them from all Saccharomyces species. A 
selective medium containing 1 % acetic acid, 
used for cultivation of spoilage yeast, allows 
the growth of most strains of wine-related Zy­
gosaccharomyces but not Saccharomyces. 
VI. Multilateral Budding Nonspore Formers. 
Genus assignment in this last category is rela­
tively easy. If the colors of the colonies are 
pink or red, as compared to the usual cream 
color, an assimilation (growth) test for inositol 
is made (Table 4-2). In this case, inositol is 
supplied as the sole carbon source. Inositol 
positive genera are Cryptococcus, and the nega­
tive genera are Rhodotorula. The latter genus is 
not properly classified as a wine-related yeast; 
but since it occurs as a very common microbi­
ological laboratory contaminant, we have in­
cluded it here. It is conspicuous by its bright 
red colonies. Cream- or light-yellow-colored 
colonies can be either Cryptococcus, again, or 
members of the rather large and diverse genus 
Candida. In the latter are many imperfect forms 
of wine-related genera, including Hansenula, 
Pichia, and Torulaspora (see Table 4-1). The 
cryptococci assimilate inositol, but do not form 
arthrospores (see below), which are often 
found in conjunction with mycelial formation 
(Table 4-2). The test for mycelium formation is 
tedious, but not complicated. It involves inocu­
lation of the yeast on a thin layer of agar so 
later growth can be examined microscopically, 
in place, directly on the agar. The agar is 
inoculated with a streak of the subject yeast. 
Along the edge of the streak of growth, Sac­
charomyces and many other genera will typically 
give the appearance of loose budding cells. 
However, Schizosaccharomyces and other fission 
yeast will show mycelial growth, where the 
cells remain connected to one another in long 
lines, the cells separated by septa running per­
pendicular to the cell length Figure 4-4a. Of­
ten in this case, at the end of the mycelial row, 
the last several cells will have separated from 
each other, and appear as isolated rectangles 
(Figure 4-4a). These latter are called 
arthrospores. Sometimes long nonseptated 
mycelia are formed (see Brettanomyces above) 116 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
(a) (b) 
(c) 
Fig. 4-4. Various mycelial forms of yeast: (a) True mycelium and arthrospores; (b) Nonseptate mycelium; (c) 
Pseudomycelium with blastospores. (Fig. 4-4a reprinted by permission of the publishers of The Life of Yeasts: 
Their Nature. Activity, Ecology and Relation to Mankind by H. J. Phaff, M. W. Miller and E. M. Mrak, Cambridge, 
Mass.: Harvard University Press, Copyright © 1966, 1978 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College.) (Figure 4-4b). Another kind of development is 
the pseudomycelium (Figure 4-4c). Here the 
cells are still in line, but with the appearance 
of the budding progeny cells, which remain 
attached together, and with no distinct per­
pendicular septa. Often there is a proliferation 
of additional cells at the junctions, and these 
are called blastospores. Back to our last stage 
in the genus taxonomy of wine-related yeasts, 
if the nonpigmented yeast assimilate inositol, 
but do not form arthrospores (and no pseu­
domycelium), they are Cryptococcus, otherwise 
they are Candida (see Appendix F for media). 
c. Species and Race Identification of the 
Wine-Related Yeasts 
Species identifications rely heavily on addi­
tional physiological tests and some morpho­
logical tests, all similar to those encountered 
in genus identification. The additional physio­
logical tests utilize a much broader range of 
carbon and nitrogen sources, as well as tests 
for growth in the presence of and at specified 
concentrations of various compounds, such as 
cycloheximide. Morphological tests include 
determination of spore shape, number of 
spores, presence of nonseptate mycelia, and 
colony color. Each of these tests has been 
mentioned above. 
Additional physiological tests also might in­
clude the determination of growth at in­
creased temperatures (34°C and 37°C); and 
the fermentation of sugars other than glucose. 
The latter fermentation tests are performed as 
before, but other sugars, monohexoses, dihex­
oses, and trihexoses, are substituted for glu­
cose. Again, turbidity formation indicates the 
growth of the yeast, not fermentation. Only 
the formation of gas in the Durham tubes 
gives the indication of fermentation. Con­
versely, a positive fermentation test with a cer­
tain sugar does indicate that the yeast will 
assimilate that sugar. Another physiological test 
of importance for some species is growth of 
the culture on a vitamin-free medium. This 
test is as simple as indicated; however, it often 
may take numerous generations (40 or more) Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 117 
to reveal a vitamin deficiency. Vitamin-free 
media are commercially available. 
The classifications of the seven species of 
Saccharomyces (Kreger-van Rij 1984) requires 
the determination of the assimilation of su­
crose and maltose as carbon sources, and of 
cadaverine and lysine as nitrogen sources; the 
growth in various concentrations (0, 100, or 
100 mg/L) of cycloheximide; and two mor­
phological tests: whether the spores are smooth 
or rough and whether the cells are small or 
large, in this case, whether they are 2.5 to 5.5 
x 3.7 to 7.0 /Lm or larger. The latter two tests 
are not difficult to determine with the light 
microscope. For the size measurements, the 
microscope should be equipped in one eye­
piece with a reticle, which can easily be cali­
brated with the use of the precisely etched 
grid of a yeast counting chamber as a speci­
men (the smallest distance between the lines 
of the grid in a Levy-Hausser chamber being 
50 /Lm). A key which defines S. cerevisiae using 
these tests, and which indicates the other six 
species of Saccharomyces, is given in Table 4-5. 
In Table 4-1 are listed the most likely species 
to be encountered by the wine microbiologist 
and it includes the total number of species in 
each genus. For the imperfect yeast, with no 
sexual spores or sexual cycles, the correspond­
ing perfect species, when known, are also 
listed. The genera are listed in the order given 
in Table 4-2, but the species within each genus 
are listed alphabetically. 
It is beyond the scope of this text to show 
which actual tests are used for the identifica­
tion of each species, those are found in 
Kreger-van Rij (1984); but it is within the scope 
to assure the would-be taxonomist that these 
tests can be readily applied. In many cases, 
perusal of our parent taxonomy (Kreger-van 
Rij 1984) at the species level shows additional 
and more complicated tests than are indicated 
here. However, these tests are needed for 
species not given in Table 4-1, and can safely 
be ignored. The one exception might be with 
speciation of Metschnikowia, but since only one 
species, M. pulcherrima, has been found on 
grapes, this problem is avoided. See Chapter 9 118 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Table 4-5. The definitions of the species of Saccharomyces 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae defined as follows: 
Cells large (3-10) X (4.5-21) ILm: 
(maltose may be assimilated) 
Cadaverine not assimilated: 
No growth on 100 mg/L cycloheximide: 
Ascospores smooth: 
for further discussions of species of Zygosaccha­
romyces, Brettanomyces, and Dekkera. 
In many cases varieties or subspecies are 
shown arising when the differences between 
strains are too small to consider each of them 
a bona fide species, but too large to lump 
them together. Sometimes the difference be­
tween the subspecies seems far too large, as 
with two varieties of K. marxianus, where the 
subdivision is based on the shapes of the as­
cospores, a difference which is large enough 
to assign genus status in other cases (Table 
4-2). 
An especially difficult situation comes up 
with the naming of some closely related strains, 
which in earlier taxonomies had been classi­
fied as several species of Saccharomyces. These 
strains are separated from one another only by 
the results of their sugar fermentation tests. 
One strain gives a positive fermentation test 
with a monosaccharide other than glucose, 
namely, galactose. Others have the enzymes 
for the hydrolysis of disaccharides, such as 
maltose, lactose, sucrose or melibiose, or the 
trisaccharide raffinose-that is to say, these 
enzymes are induced in certain strains in the 
presence of the sugars. These strains are so 
similar, perhaps having only one gene differ­
ence between them, that each strain has now 
been named a race of the species S. cerevisiae, if yes and sucrose + 
if yes and sucrose -
if yes and sucrose + 
if yes and sucrose -
Growth on 1000 mg/L 
cycloheximide 
No growth on 
1000 mg/L 
cycloheximide 
if rough S.K1uyveri 
S. unisporus 
S. exiguus 
S. servazii 
S. dairensis 
S. telluris 
rather than a species in its own right (Kreger­
van Rij 1984). There are 17 of these races. 
Essentially all of the Saccharomyces strains im­
portant in industrial fermentations fall into 
this grouping. While the clumping of these 
organisms into one species solved a difficult 
situation for the taxonomists, it brought up a 
cumbersome one for enologists. Races of S. 
cerevisiae of the most importance to wine mi­
crobiologists are probably, in addition to race 
cerevisiae: bayanus, capensis, chevalieri, steineri, 
and uvarum. Part of the rationale for this 
subdivision of S. cerevisiae as races rather than 
as species comes from some instability of the 
distinguishing characteristics, the absence of 
consistent isolations, and the high degree of 
DNA homology between them (Kreger-van Rij 
1984). 
The situation with respect to the races cere­
visiae and bayanus is special. These races differ 
in their fermentations of galactose-So cere­
visiae race cerevisiae being positive-and this 
trait has long been used to distinguish the two. 
Vaughn-Martini and Kurtzman (1985) have 
made important contributions to resolve this 
troublesome question by showing that these 
two races should be returned to species status, 
along with another close relation, S. pastori­
anus. This will be acceptable to enologists, 
who have long recognized the differences be-tween S. cerevisiae and S. bay anus , in that es­
sentially all of the strains useful in sparkling 
wine production are of the latter. 
In earlier taxonomies, strains of flor yeast, 
for production of film sherry, were named S. 
chevalieri, along with other species, S. cheriensis 
and S. beticus. But these are not closely related 
to race S. cerevisiae race chevalieri. Instead, most 
of the flor strains have been placed in the 
genus and species Torulaspora delbrueckii (or 
the imperfect form Candida colliculosa). 
Before leaving the subject of sugar fermen­
tations, it should be noted that for a positive 
fermentation test, not only must the strain 
have the needed enzyme to hydrolyze the 
polysaccharide, but it also must have the capa­
bility to ferment at least one of the hexoses 
released. For example, breaking of the bond 
between galactose and sucrose moieties of the 
raffinose molecule would result in a fermenta­
tion-negative test if the yeast was not able to 
ferment either galactose or not able to hydro­
lyze sucrose to its fermentable moieties, glu­
cose and fructose. 
Two rules often mentioned by yeast tax­
onomists are that if a yeast ferments glucose, it 
will also ferment fructose; and if it ferments 
maltose, it will not ferment lactose. The for­
mer is always true. However, this second rule 
will not do for us, since at least one species 
of Brettanomyces ferments both maltose and 
lactose. 
From Table 4-1 we see that Candida, with 
196 species, is an oversized genus. Indeed, it is 
a collection of convenience and the species 
therein show a wide spectrum of characteris­
tics. It has been divided into 10 groups. The 
yeasts in group I are separated from the rest 
by their ability to be stained by the dye, Diazo­
nium Blue B, but none of the individuals in 
group I is wine related. The rest of the groups 
are separated by the ability to assimilate vari­
ous compounds. Within each group, the vari­
ous physiological and morphological tests al­
ready discussed are employed. Running these 
tests may be tedious, but they are straightfor­
ward, and so is the assignment of the results. 
In addition, taxonomists also use the "coen-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 119 
zyme Q system" developed by Yamada and 
co-workers (Kreger-van Rij 1984), where the 
number of isoprene units per ubiquinone 
molecules are determined. The resulting Co-Q 
number ranges between 6 and 10 and is useful 
in confirming species of Candida, and indeed 
species of other genera, as well as some gen­
era, themselves. 
d. Strain Identification of the 
Wine-Related Yeasts 
There are a number of reasons it may be 
necessary to verify the identity of a particular 
strain: to be certain that a proposed inoculum 
is the same or different from another; to prove 
that an added strain is in fact surviving and is 
present at the end of fermentation; or to de­
termine which strain is actually conducting the 
fermentation; or to know if an unwanted strain 
has become established in the winery. 
/. Physiological Tests. The acquisition of 
yes or no answers, which make dichotomous 
keys so convenient, comes to an end with the 
species classifications. For yeast strain identi­
fication, until very recent times, definitive 
strain classifications were virtually impossible, 
relying on difficult physiological characteriza­
tion. However, new karyogamic technology 
now available allows fingerprinting of the nu­
clear material and for decisive assignment of 
strains, and is described in the next section. 
Growth and fermentation performances and 
viabilities were used in the past to differentiate 
strains. These traits can be measured under 
many sets of circumstances-environmental 
manipulations-and some sort of numerical 
values can be attached to the performances. 
These kinds of tests must be made under 
scrupulously standardized conditions, and that 
the finding of identical values for various yeast 
strains is no proof of the identity of the strains. 
However, lack of identical values should indi­
cate that the strains are not identical. Thus, 
this kind of methodology, although difficult 
and often not very helpful, has provided an­
swers to demanding questions. Some of the 
measurements which have been used in this 120 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
way are duration of the growth lag period and 
growth rate constants under standard condi­
tions. The use of various concentrations of 
several vitamins to obtain what were called 
BIOS numbers turned out to be less satisfac­
tory, but other nutrients might be more effec­
tive (Kunkee and Bisson 1993). During stan­
dard fermentation trials, the fermentation lag 
period, the maximum fermentation rate, and 
the overall duration (to some final Brix read­
ing) have been used with some success in this 
context. 
There is vast literature on the effect of yeast 
strains on the formation of various end prod­
ucts during the fermentation. Within each ex­
periment, reliable differences in the perfor­
mances are obvious, but there is no justifica­
tion for extrapolation of these results willy-nilly 
to other experiments. Of course, if a yeast 
strain (such as UCD Enology #694, a leucine­
less mutant of Montrachet) really does pro­
duce lower concentrations of isoamyl alcohol, 
then this trait ought to show up during essen­
tially all fermentation tests, and it does (Sec­
tion H.2). 
Sensitivities to inhibitory agents, such as 
sulfur dioxide, ethanol, and sugars (at high 
concentrations) have been used to distinguish 
yeast strains. The sensitivities sometimes have 
been measured by the effect on growth rates 
or on viability, but generally not on fermenta­
tion performance per se. More sophisticated 
tests have involved the electrophoresis pattern 
of various enzymes of a cell-free preparation; 
the measurement of alcohol dehydrogenase, 
in this regard, has been somewhat successful 
(Singh and Kunkee 1977). 
In some cases, strains are naturally rather 
specifically labeled, and appraisal of that can 
be used, again not to identify but to exclude. 
For example, California Champagne (UCD 
Enology #505) is extremely flocculent, and 
can almost be identified by this behavior. 
Month-old colonies of the flor strain of Toru­
laspora dellnueckii (UCD Enology #519) give a 
characteristic crinkled appearance. Typing of 
various killer-factor phenomena (Section K.l) 
-killer production, killer sensitivity, and killer neutrality -could be used, again to show 
exclusion, not identity. 
Fermentation efficiencies, measured as the 
rate of carbon dioxide production per unit dry 
weight, have been used to proof yeast strains 
used for other fermentation industries and 
seem to be useful in categorizing some strains 
of yeasts (Thorne 1958). This has not been 
very successful with wine yeasts. And neither 
has another kind of fermentation efficiency, 
the ethanol production for units of sugar fer­
mented; or for the more common measure­
ment, the ethanol produced in relation to 
starting Brix (a measurement which includes 
other soluble solids besides sugar) (Chapter 3). 
Some other strain identification techniques 
have shown some limited success, but have a 
disadvantage in that the results are dependent 
upon the different physiological states of the 
cell. One of these is the study of the profiles of 
the volatile fatty acids (Cottrell et al. 1986). 
This has been used especially to identify wine 
spoilage yeasts (Malfeito-Ferreira et al. 1989), 
but also to try to characterize various wine 
yeast strains (Tredoux et al. 1987; Augustyn 
and Kock 1989; Kunkee 1990). Another has 
been electrophoretic examination of proteins: 
extracellular (Molan et al. 1982; Bouix and 
Leveau 1983) and intracellular (van Vuuren 
and van der Meer 1987). 
Even less successful has been the attempt to 
relate the effect of the yeast strain used for the 
alcoholic fermentation on any subsequent 
malolactic fermentation. Undoubtedly there is 
an effect, but it would seem to be over­
whelmed by other factors. 
Most unsuccessful of all is the attempt to 
relate the wine yeast strain with the flavor of 
the end product (Bisson and Kunkee 1991; 
Kunkee and Bisson 1993; Kunkee and Vilas 
1994). 
II. Karyotype Analyses. The most useful 
methods for strain identification involve analy­
sis of nuclear material. Since they are so closely 
related, the various strains show extensive DNA 
homology and identical GC (guanine cytosine) 
content, thus, methods, based on these mea-surements are of little use in differentiating 
strains. However, two other kinds of methods 
are successfully used, which are based upon 
detecting the frequency of base pair differ­
ences of the DNA or of rearrangements of the 
genome or both. These procedures are sum­
marized as follows. 
Restriction enzymes are proteins that rec­
ognize a specific sequence of double-stranded 
DNA, cleaving the DNA at or near that se­
quence. Single base pair changes of the DNA 
can alter the sequence so that it is no longer a 
substrate site for the restriction enzyme. The 
more distantly related two strains are, the 
greater the frequency of differences in both 
the location and number of restriction sites in 
the DNA. Restriction enzyme treatment or di­
gestion of DNA results in the generation of 
specific DNA fragments or restriction frag­
ments, that will differ more in pattern the 
more distantly related the strains are. If the 
fragments are low enough in number, they 
can be separated electrophoretically in a gel 
matrix and then visualized with ethidium bro­
mide, a fluorescent dye that binds to DNA. 
Restriction enzyme digestion of total genomic 
DNA often results in the generation of too 
many fragments to allow resolution of discrete 
bands on a standard electrophoretic analysis. 
It is then necessary to develop a strategy for 
examining only a subset of the restriction frag­
ments. This is accomplished by using repeti­
tive DNA elements as probes that will reveal or 
light up a subset of the restriction fragments. 
Repetitive DNA elements are sequences that 
are found multiple times dispersed through­
out the genome. For Saccharomyces, the virus­
like Ty elements can be used to probe the 
restriction digest. The "probe" is labeled or 
tagged in some way as to make the restriction 
fragments that it recognizes visible. The probe 
DNA can be radiolabeled with 32p, for exam­
ple, and the location of the 32 P bands in the 
gel determined for comparison to other 
strains. The probe reacts with or hybridizes to 
homologous sequences. This methodology has 
been applied to identification of wine yeast 
strains (Degre et al. 1989). Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 121 
An alternative method for examining the 
relatedness of strains of Saccharomyces is to do 
a restriction digest and comparison of the 
mitochondrial DNA. The mitochondria are 
DNA-containing eucaryotic organelles. The 
mitochondrial genome is much smaller than 
the nuclear genome. Restriction digestion of 
the mitochondrial DNA often yields a discrete 
banding pattern. This procedure also has been 
applied to identification of wine yeast strains 
(Dubourdieu et al. 1987; Hallet et al. 1988; 
Vezinhet et al. 1990a). 
Strains can often be distinguished from one 
another on the basis of genome rearrange­
ments. Genome rearrangements will also lead 
to changes in the pattern of restriction frag­
ments. This analysis is called restriction frag­
ment length polymorphisms (RFLP). 
Saccharomyces has 16 distinct chromosomes. 
Over time, there is exchange of nonhomolo­
gous material between chromosomes, altering 
their length. Intact chromosomes can also be 
separated electrophoretically, revealing a dis­
tinct karyotype, or chromosome pattern 
(Skinner et al. 1991). Care must be taken not 
to damage or break the chromosomes during 
karyotyping. For successful karyotyping a 
pulsed current is used, often involving an al­
ternating change in the direction or orienta­
tion of the electric field, providing a tortuous 
path for the chromosomes to traverse. Smaller 
molecules have an easier time shifting direc­
tion in response to a change in current than 
do larger ones. These various techniques have 
given rise to now very familiar acronyms: FIGE 
(field inversion gel electrophoresis) (Carle et 
al. 1986); OFAGE (orthoganal field alternating 
gel electrophoresis) (Carle et al. 1986); CHEF 
(contour-clamped homogeneous electric field) 
(Chu et al. 1986); and TAFE (traverse alternat­
ing field electrophoresis) (Gardiner and Pat­
terson 1988; Stewart et al. 1988). These tech­
niques are somewhat cumbersome and expen­
sive, but are now being used not only in re­
search, including enological research (Blondin 
and Vezinhet 1988; Vezinhet et al. 1990a), but 
also by culture collection curators and yeast 122 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
production laboratories (Degre et al. 1989). 
We and others (Section C.l) have used these 
analyses to document that a wine strain used 
as inoculum indeed dominates and completes 
a vinification fermentation. 
A newer technology, polymerase chain re­
action (PCR), which amplifies discrete DNA 
fragments via de novo synthesis starting with 
known DNA primers, is also being applied to 
strain analysis and identification (Ness et al. 
1993). 
B. NATURAL GRAPE AND WINERY 
FLORA 
Although Saccharomyces species are not nor­
mally found to any large extent on grapes in 
the natural environment, grapes, as delivered 
to the winery, host a variety of other microbial 
organisms (Section A.3). However, Saccha­
romyces is so well adapted to grape juice as a 
growth medium, that these yeasts readily dom­
inate grape juice fermentations, making up 
essentially a pure culture by the end of fer­
mentation. 
The grape microbial flora is dependent 
upon many factors, such as rainfall, humidity, 
vineyard spray regimes, vineyard altitude, in­
sect vectors, nitrogen fertilization regimes, and 
winery waste disposal practices. In general 
terms, the population of molds is usually quite 
high. The principal genera found are: As­
pergillus, Penicillium, Rhizopus, and Mucor 
(Amerine et al. 1980). Under certain condi­
tions, detailed below, members of the genus 
Botrytis can be found on grapes. Infection of 
grapes with Botrytis can produce wines of a 
very characteristic composition and flavor, 
highly desirable in certain white wine styles 
(Chapter 2). If there is significant berry dam­
age and mold growth, the molds present may 
deplete essential vitamins and minerals, reduc­
ing the nutrient content of the juice suffi­
ciently such that the yeast will have a difficult 
time completing the grape juice fermentation 
(Chapter 9). The population of aerobic and facultative 
anaerobic bacteria may also be high on dam­
aged grapes at harvest. The principal prokary­
otic genera present are the bacilli, lactic, and 
acetic acid bacteria, and they are found in 
much lower numbers on healthy fruit than are 
the eucaryotic wild yeasts. The wild yeasts pre­
sent are principally of the genera Kloeckera, 
Metschnikowia, Hansenula, Candida, and Hanse­
niaspora. Saccharomyces can also be occasionally 
found in vineyards where it is common prac­
tice to dispose of winery waste-pomace and 
yeast lees-in the vineyard as fertilizer. In the 
absence of this practice, Saccharomyces species 
are very difficult to isolate from surfaces of 
grapes from the vineyard (Section A.3). Kloeck­
era apiculata seems to be the dominating yeast 
species on grapes in cooler growing regions, 
whereas Hanseniaspora uvarum is more preva­
lent in warmer regions (Castelli 1957; Adams 
1960). 
The molds and aerobic bacteria fail to grow 
under the anaerobic conditions of the alco­
holic fermentation, and do not persist in grape 
juice fermentations. An exception is when red 
wine fermentation and CO 2 production are 
delayed during which a cap of grape skins 
forms on the surface of the must that provides 
an environment suitable to the growth of some 
of these organisms, particularly Acetobacter. 
Regular pumping over of the fermentation to 
bathe and submerge the cap will eliminate this 
problem. The wild yeasts, on the other hand, 
are capable of anaerobic as well as aerobic 
growth, and may persist during the fermenta­
tion. These yeasts will compete with Saccha­
romyces for nutrients and may produce fatty 
acid esters and other compounds affecting the 
fermentation bouquet of the wine. Very few of 
these other yeasts are as ethanol-tolerant as 
Saccharomyces, and, therefore, are generally un­
detectable by the end of fermentation. The 
persistence of these non-Saccharomyces, or wild 
yeasts during a fermentation depends upon 
many factors, such as the temperature of fer­
mentation, nutrient availability, inoculum 
strength of Saccharomyces, use and levels of sulfur dioxide, and the numbers and kinds of 
organisms present on the grapes in the first 
place. Spoilage yeast, such as Brettanomyces, 
often find their way into the winery with the 
reception of the grapes, and although origi­
nally in small numbers, establish residence 
within the winery (Chapter 9). While Saccha­
romyces species are not prevalent on grapes, 
they are common flora of winery equipment 
and facilities. Even when well cleaned, winery 
equipment is not sterile unless very unusual 
measures are taken. 
The lactic acid bacteria are an especially 
important class of microorganisms found in 
wines. They are responsible for the "malo­
lactic" fermentation, which is the conversion 
of malic acid to lactic acid. These microorgan­
isms and this fermentation are described in 
detail in Chapter 6. 
C. FERMENTATION INOCULATION 
PRACTICES 
Grape juice fermentation may be either natu­
ral, conducted by the flora present on the 
grapes and in the winery, or inoculated, con­
ducted by the addition of a known strain of 
Saccharomyces. This latter practice minimizes 
the influence of wild yeasts on wine quality. 
Fermentations may be inoculated with a rehy­
drated commercial preparation of a suitable 
wine yeast strain or with a portion of actively 
fermenting wine. A good wine yeast strain for 
table wine production should: 
• Conduct a vigorous fermentation. 
• Conduct fermentation to dryness (Jow to no 
residual fermentable sugar). 
• Possess reproducible fermentation character-
istics and behave predictably. 
• Possess good ethanol tolerance. 
• Possess good temperature tolerance. 
• Produce no off-flavors or aromas. 
• Be S02 tolerant. 
• Flocculate so as to be easy to remove (par­
ticularly for secondary fermentation in 
sparkling wine production). Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 123 
1. Starter Cultures 
The identification of a good wine strain hav­
ing the above characteristics supposes that a 
conscious selection of a certain wine yeast 
strain as a starter culture has been made. If so, 
the strain may be commercially available in a 
dried form; or it may be from a culture collec­
tion, and a liquid inoculum needs to be pre­
pared. Whichever type of starter culture is 
used, the amount should be large enough to 
assure the wine maker that the fermentation is 
made and completed by the inoculated strain. 
Until recently, this assurance was not easily 
demonstrated. However, with the available new 
biotechnologies, the identity of the dominant 
yeast strain at the end of a fermentation can 
be determined. Recent research employing 
genetic markings and karyogamic typing (Sec­
tion A.3d) confirms that under normal condi­
tions, the inoculated strain commands the fer­
mentation and constitutes most of the total 
yeast population at the finish (Delteil and Aizac 
1989; Vezinhet et al. 1990b; Petering et al. 
1991). 
a. Active Dry Wine Yeast 
The commercial availability of wine yeast in 
the active dried form is rather recent, but its 
use has received dramatic acceptance in the 
newer wine regions, especially in the United 
States (Reed and Nagodawithana 1988; Kun­
kee and Bisson 1993). Currently there are at 
least nine companies worldwide producing 
some three dozen strains of wine yeast-al­
though probably less than six strains are the 
most popular. The wine yeasts are produced, 
as are Baker's yeast, under highly aerobic con­
ditions on media with abundant nutrients but 
having very low concentrations of glucose 
(Kraus et al. 1983, 1984). Often diluted mo­
lasses is used. These conditions encourage for­
mation of biomass, with a minimum formation 
of ethanol. The high concentration of oxygen 
induces the formation of survival factors, un­
saturated fatty acids, and sterols in the cell 
membranes which are needed for the cells' 
high tolerance to ethanol during wine produc-124 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
tion (Sections K.1b and L). The low concentra­
tion of glucose and aerobic conditions gener­
ate cells with active mitochondria, which also 
have survival factors in their membranes. Thus, 
during the vinification fermentation, these 
commercially prepared yeasts are endowed 
with enough survival factors to avoid sluggish 
fermentations (Section KI) under normal con­
ditions. 
Although these yeasts are called active dry, 
they contain up to 9% moisture. They are 
usually marketed hermetically sealed under 
nitrogen. When stored in the cold, they main­
tain viability for at least one year. During most 
of the drying processes, the cellular mem­
branes of the yeast tend to lose their perme­
ability barrier function. Thus, it is important 
to reestablish this barrier function, which is a 
metabolic process and is optimally done by 
adding the yeast to a small volume of warm 
water (40°C) for 20 minutes before adding the 
yeast to the must. The recommended dosage 
of about 0.1 to 0.2 g dry yeast per L of must 
should give an initial concentration of about 
106 cellsjmL. Higher and lower amounts can 
be used; the lower amounts are less costly, but 
this increases the risk of not providing enough 
survival factors for a complete fermentation. 
Inoculation at the ultimate population level 
(108 cellsjmL) minimizes yeast multiplication, 
raises ethanol yield slightly, and can give a 
decided yeast note to the finished wine. 
Although the starter cultures for the com­
mercial preparations are pure, and efforts are 
made to maintain aseptic production facilities, 
the product itself is not completely free from 
contamination; some bacteria and other yeast 
are usually found. 
b. Liquid Inocula 
Starter cultures can be prepared in the winery 
laboratory from stored cultures. This has the 
dubious advantage of providing a starter cul­
ture of some special strain that is not commer­
cially available but is labor-intensive and needs 
to be done carefully by microbiologically 
trained personnel. Again, it is expected that 
the culture in the collection is a pure one. The first few stages of the expansion of the 
culture should be done aseptically. A loop of 
yeast from slant culture might be transferred 
to 5 mL of autoclaved grape juice. Mter one 
or two days, active growth is evident and the 
culture can be conveniently transferred into 
50-fold volume (250 mL) of autoclaved juice. 
Such serial transfers can be made perhaps one 
or two more times, but then the volumes be­
come too large for convenient aseptic transfer. 
Since wine yeast grow very rapidly and since 
grape juice is an ideal medium for these or­
ganisms (its nutrients and pH allowing expan­
sion of the culture but discouraging growth of 
most extraneous organisms), large inocula 
(2%) and judicious amounts of added sulfur 
dioxide essentially maintain asepsis. 
2. Natural Fermentations 
The conditions of inoculation depend to a 
certain extent upon regional practices and 
experiences. A natural fermentation is one in 
which no yeast starter is intentionally added. 
We say intentionally because in most cases 
where a winemaker may be expecting to bring 
about a natural fermentation, yeasts are actu­
ally being introduced during winery opera­
tions. Natural fermentations in the absence of 
sulfur dioxide may allow the wild yeast flora to 
persist and possibly make a contribution to the 
overall sensory character of the wine. This may 
be a good idea, adding to wine complexity, or 
a serious mistake, detracting from wine qual­
ity, depending upon the grape variety, the 
wine style, and the actual flora present during 
the fermentation. Certainly, the impact of a 
natural fermentation on wine flavor and aroma 
is not predictable. Some particularly nasty 
off-flavors and aromas can be produced by 
wild yeasts and bacteria that are difficult if not 
impossible to diminish in the finished wine. 
Another disadvantage of natural fermentations 
is their unpredictability in terms of fermenta­
tion onset and duration. Use of a starter cul­
ture ensures a more rapid takeover by Saccha­
romyces. There is generally a lag period or time 
of adaptation required before cell growth and fermentation even if a commercial prepara­
tion is used, since the commercial yeasts are 
grown under strictly aerobic and low substrate 
conditions. These growth conditions of high 
oxygen exposure also ensure that the starter 
yeast contains an ample supply of survival fac­
tors, sterols, and unsaturated fatty acids neces­
sary for ethanol tolerance. Given what we now 
know about wine yeasts, it is fair to conclude 
that so-called natural or wild yeast fermenta­
tions are always conducted by wine strains of 
Saccharomyces. It is significant that inoculation 
with selected strains is growing as a practice 
worldwide. 
The practice of using juice from one tank 
in midfermentation to inoculate the next, re­
sults in a rapid fermentation initiation as the 
yeasts are preadapted to the grape juice; how­
ever, it has the disadvantage of introducing a 
nutrient-depleted inoculum if the first juice 
itself is nutritionally deficient. It also depletes 
the cells of survival factors, and can foster the 
spread of spoilage organisms if they become 
established in the juice utilized for inocula­
tion. Generally, a 2 to 5% (v Iv) inoculum is 
used from a fermenting juice at 12 to 15 Brix. 
Saccharomyces species readily dominate grape 
juice fermentations, even when greatly out­
numbered in the initial stages of fermentation. 
3. Dominance by Saccharomyces 
Many physiological parameters allow Saccha­
romyces to dominate grape juice fermentations. 
Rapid high-level production of a toxic end 
product is one strategy to ensure dominance 
in the fermenting medium. Tolerance to high 
concentrations of ethanol is the principal fea­
ture of this yeast allowing survival in the fer­
menting medium. Saccharomyces produces 
ethanol as the major end product of the fer­
mentation of grape sugars. The non-Sac­
charomyces wild yeasts and other grape flora 
are not nearly as ethanol tolerant as Saccha­
romyces, although some are capable of ethanol 
production themselves. Common spoilage 
yeasts of wine, Brettanomyces and Zygosaccha-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 125 
romyces, are as tolerant of ethanol as the Sac­
charomyces species. 
A second parameter that may also give Sac­
charomyces species a competitive advantage is 
tolerance to higher temperatures than many 
other yeasts. Anaerobic fermentation is some­
what inefficient, generating waste energy in 
the form of heat. During vinifications, wine 
strains of Saccharomyces can maintain viability 
and continue to ferment at temperatures ap­
proaching 38°C, while most of the wild flora 
are inhibited at temperatures in excess of 25°C. 
Production of heat as an end product and 
ability to survive warmer temperatures may 
have selected traits in Saccharomyces contribut­
ing to dominance of fermentations. 
Successful competition for limiting nutri­
ents is also a factor contributing to the domi­
nance of one species or genus over another in 
a mixed microbial fermentation (Bisson and 
Kunkee 1991). Much study has been made on 
nutrient utilization and uptake in Saccha­
romyces species, but very little comparative 
analysis with other flora has been undertaken. 
Juice nutrient content can vary widely as a 
function of numerous variables such as grape 
variety, growing region and climatic effects, 
nutritional richness of the soil, and vineyard 
fertilization practices. In general, juices pro­
duced in the older grape growing regions of 
Europe appear to be more nutritionally defi­
cient than those of relatively newer growing 
regions such as California. The nutritional 
content of a juice impacts the number and 
kinds of organisms that can multiply. In gen­
eral, California experience has been that natu­
ral (uninoculated) fermentations are risky in 
that off-characters are often produced by the 
wild yeasts and can persist in the finished 
wine, detracting from wine quality. This does 
not appear to be the experience in older 
growing regions where natural fermentations 
have been routine, producing wines with dis­
tinctive regional character. The distinctive re­
gional character is more likely associated with 
viticultural and climatic considerations than 
with the dominant yeast strain, which is proba­
bly resident in the winery rather than associ-126 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
ated with the vineyard in any case (Miiller­
Thurgau 1889; Kunkee 1984). The relative nu­
tritional weaknesses of the juices may play an 
important role in limiting the contribution or 
impact of the wild flora on wine flavor and 
aroma. It also may be that more blending of 
the finished wines limits the obtrusiveness of 
the occasional off-lot. A poor quality or non­
vintage year in a European growing region 
may be an indicator of poor grape quality for 
that season, but may also reflect microbial 
activity detracting from varietal flavor and 
aroma. It is also important to remember that 
in many regions in Europe, winery waste, po­
mace and yeast lees, are used to fertilize the 
vineyard post fermentation. Mter several years 
of such disposal, this treatment may constitute 
an inoculation of the vineyard with winery 
yeast, which impact the flora on the fruit at 
subsequent harvest. 
D. YEAST MORPHOLOGY AND 
CELLULAR ORGANIZATION 
Saccharomyces is a eucaryotic microorganism 
that reproduces by budding (Figure 4-1 e). 
These cells are surrounded by a rigid cell wall 
comprised of glucan, mannan, and protein, 
allowing the cells to withstand dramatic 
changes in osmotic pressure. Beneath the cell 
wall is a periplasmic space, the site of localiza­
tion of secreted proteins. Intact cells of Saccha­
romyces do not secrete proteins into the sur­
rounding medium. Instead, extracellular en­
zymes are confined to the exterior of the cell 
by the cell wall. Other yeasts do secrete en­
zymes into the surrounding medium. The yeast 
cell cytoplasm is surrounded by a plasma 
membrane which serves as the principal per­
meability barrier. 
Saccharomyces also displays subcellular or­
ganelles characteristic of higher eucaryotic or­
ganisms. A membrane-bound nucleus is pre­
sent as well as endoplasmic reticulum, golgi 
bodies, and secretory vesicles. Mitochondria 
are also found. Because of their fermentative 
nature, Saccharomyces strains can exist without 
mitochondria, the so-called petite or respira-tory-deficient mutants. Petite strains are inca­
pable of growth on nonfermentative substrate~ 
such as ethanol, pyruvate, and lactate, but can 
grow fermentatively on sugars. During anaero­
bic fermentation, mitochondrial activity is sup­
pressed and the enzymes of the electron trans­
port chain are not synthesized. In addition to 
respiration, many oxidative reactions are con­
fined to the mitochondrion and hence are not 
functional during fermentation. These include 
the reactions of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) 
cycle, proline oxidation, and fatty acid biosyn­
thesis. Due to their extensive membranous na­
ture, mitochondria also serve as a reserve of 
lipid material which can be cannibalized and 
used for plasma membrane biosynthesis dur­
ing anaerobic growth. 
Yeasts also possess vacuoles analogous to the 
plant cell vacuoles which serves as the site of 
hydrolysis of macromolecules; storage of amino 
acids, some high-energy compounds such as 
ortho phosphate, and other cellular compo­
nents, and is involved in maintaining turgor 
pressure and ion balances (Section 1-1). 
E. YEAST NUTRITION AN D 
GROWTH CHARACTERISTICS 
1. Carbon Metabolism 
When compared to many microorganisms, 
Saccharomyces species are fairly limited in the 
compounds that can be utilized as carbon and 
energy sources. The monosaccharides glucose, 
fructose, mannose, and galactose can support 
growth and metabolism of this yeast. The di­
saccharides sucrose, maltose, and melibiose 
can be utilized by most wine strains of Saccha­
romyces, but not by all, depending upon the 
genetic background of the strain, usually in­
volving the formation of the appropriate en­
zymes in response to the respective sugar sub­
strates. The trisaccharide raffinose can also 
serve as a substrate. Pentoses are not fer­
mented by Saccharomyces wine strains. Sub­
strates supporting oxidative or respiratory 
growth are also limited: pyruvate, lactate, ethanol, acetate, and glycerol. However, glyc­
erol supports growth poorly as the sole carbon 
and energy source in minimal, defined 
medium (Wills 1990). Other organic acids can­
not be utilized by Saccharomyces as carbon or 
energy sources, although some, such as malic 
acid, can be metabolized to other compounds 
by some strains. 
The major routes of carbon metabolism in 
Saccharomyces are depicted in Figure 4-5. Which 
pathways are operational depends upon the 
substrate available and growth conditions. 
Availability of oxygen plays a critical role in 
metabolism as molecular oxygen is required as 
the terminal electron acceptor during respira­
tion, but it has a different role during high­
sugar, relatively anaerobic fermentations. 
The major pathway for glucose (fructose, 
mannose) catabolism is glycolysis (Section F). 
Many of the pathways presented in Figure 4-5 
are not operational during fermentation, but 
are briefly discussed to place the biochemistry 
of fermentation within the greater context of 
cellular biochemistry. The earliest studies that 
led to the development of microbiology, bio­
chemistry, and stereochemistry were accom­
plished by scientists studying wine and yeast 
fermentations. Indeed, enzyme means "in 
yeast." Enology can be considered the parent 
of these discipline-based sciences. 
The glycolytic pathway, conversion of glu­
cose to pyruvate, is a virtually universal path­
way for glucose catabolism found throughout 
the eucaryotic kingdom and in many procary­
otes. The pathway is operational under both 
fermentative and respiratory modes of 
metabolism. In fermentation, a carbon com­
pound serves as terminal acceptor of the elec­
trons that are generated in the pathway in the 
course of converting the sugar metabolites to 
energy in the form of ATP (adenosine triphos­
phate). In Saccharomyces, pyruvate is converted 
to acetaldehyde, which serves as terminal elec­
tron acceptor generating ethanol. Other or­
ganisms utilize other electron acceptors dur­
ing fermentation producing reduced acids 
such as the lactic acid bacteria, which utilize 
pyruvate itself as hydrogen acceptor in being Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 127 
reduced to lactic acid. In muscle, pyruvate also 
serves as terminal electron acceptor generat­
ing lactic acid. 
During respiration, which may be impor­
tant in the earliest phases of vinification fer­
mentation and in all phases of commercial 
yeast production, more of the energy of the 
catabolism of carbon compounds is captured 
in the form of ATP. This is a consequence of 
the action of two metabolic pathways-the 
tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and the electron 
transport chain (Figures 4-6 and 4-7). 
In the TCA cycle, pyruvate is decarboxyl­
ated and reacts with Coenzyme A to yield 
acetyl-CoA. The enzyme catalyzing this reac­
tion is pyruvate dehydrogenase. Acetyl-CoA 
condenses with the four-carbon acid, oxalac­
etate, to produce citrate, a six-carbon acid, 
and, subsequently, several other organic acid 
intermediates are formed. One turn of the 
cycle generates two molecules of CO2 and 
regenerates oxalacetate. Also generated are 
three molecules of reduced nicotinamide ade­
nine dinucleotide (NADH), and one of flavine 
adenine dinucleotide (FADH 2). Respiratory­
chain-linked phosphorylation during the oxi­
dation of NADH yields three molecules of 
ATP and two for FADH 2, for a total of 14 
molecules of ATP for each pyruvate metabo­
lized. The generation of ATP during respira­
tion is called oxidative phosphorylation; that re­
sulting from glycolysis is called substrate level 
phosphorylation. 
The reactions that generate NADH and 
FADH2 are listed in Table 4-6. An additional 
substrate-level phosphorylation occurs at the 
succinyl CoA synthase reaction. Therefore, a 
single pyruvate molecule traversing the TCA 
cycle generates 15 molecules of ATP. Two 
molecules of pyruvate (equivalent of one glu­
cose) generate 30 molecules of ATP. There 
are two molecules of ATP produced during 
glycolysis for a total of 32. If the pyruvate is 
being completely oxidized to CO2, then the 
two NADH molecules produced during glycol­
ysis may also be a source of ATP. These NADH 
molecules are cytoplasmic and not mitochon­
drial, and in order to generate ATP the elec-128 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
glucose biosynthesis 
trehalose 
glycogen 
gl"ro .. ~ r ( 9IUCOneOgeneSiS~ ____ _ 
cytoplasm glucose-6-phosphate 
G 
L 
y 
C 
0 
L 
Y 
S 
I 
S ! Pentose 
~ Phosphate 
Pathway 
t 
biosynthesis 
"TCA Pathways" r 
succinate 
(reductive) o><al.""" .oId \ 
a-ketogl uta rate 
(oxidative) 
Fig. 4-5. Major pathways of carbon metabolizing Saccharomyces. NADH, I-f 
NAD+ 
f02-
HO-CH 
I 
HCH 
I 
COi 
Malate 
t-H~ 
f02-
HC 
II 
CH 
I 
C02-
Fumarate 
t:FAD~ 
FAD 
fOi 
HCH 
I 
HCH 
I 
C02-
Succinate 
ADP, Pi f02-
C-O 
I 
HCH 
I 
CO2-
Oxalaeetate 
Succinyl 
CoA 0:::: ..... SCoA 
C( 
CH3 
Acetyl CoA 
Fig, 4-6. Enzymatic steps of the citric acid (TCA) cycle_ Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 129 
Citrate 
fOi 
C=O 
I 
CH 
I 
HCH 
I 
HCH 
I 
C~-
a-Ketoglutarate f02-
CH 
II C-C0 2-
I 
C~ 
I 
C02-
Cis -aeonitate 
COi 
I 
HC-OH 
I 
-02C-CH 
I 
C~ 
I 
COi 
Isoeitrate 
NADH, I-f 
C~ 130 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
NADH 
flavoprotein (ADP+Pi 
ATP 
FADH2 ~ Coenzyme Q 
cytochrome b 
~ 
cytoch rome c 1 
~ (ADP+Pi 
ATP 
cytoch rome c 
~ 
(ADP+Pi 
ATP cytochrome a 
~ 3 
cytoch rome a 
~ 
O2 -----::>~ H20 
Fig. 4-7. Steps of the electron transport chain. 
trons must be shuttled into the mitochondria. 
Depending upon the shuttling mechanism uti­
lized, two or three ATP molecules may be 
obtained per NADH molecule oxidized. A sin­
gle glucose molecule, if respired completely, 
will yield 36 to 38 molecules of ATP, 33 to 35 
from oxidative phosphorylation and a net of 
three from substrate-level phosphorylation. 
Thus, the energy yielded by yeast metabolism is 15 fold higher for aerobic as compared to 
anaerobic sugar catabolism. 
Enzymes of the TCA cycle and electron 
transport chain are localized in a subcellular 
organelle, the mitochondrion. Since respira­
tion is ultimately dependent upon oxygen, 
these enzymes are not synthesized constitu­
tively, but only when required for metabolism. 
In yeast, expression of the genes encoding 
these enzymes is controlled by the concentra­
tion of glucose or other fermentable sugar in 
the medium. The genes are repressed by high 
glucose concentration, meaning that mRNA is 
not made; there is no transcription. This regu­
latory phenomenon is variously called glucose 
repression, glucose catabolite repression, carbon 
catabolite repression, or the Crabtree e JJect 
(Crabtree 1929; De Deken 1966). When sub­
strate is not limiting, yeasts rely upon fermen­
tation or substrate-level phosphorylation ex­
clusively for ATP production. Thus, fermenta­
tion is the preferred mode of metabolism even 
when molecular oxygen is available. As sugar 
concentration becomes limiting, yeast must 
switch to respiratory metabolism in order to 
generate sufficient ATP for growth and 
metabolism. Of course, if oxygen is not avail­
able this metabolic switch does not occur. It is 
not surprising that oxygen availability is also a 
regulator of gene expression in addition to 
glucose concentration. 
The TCA cycle has an important role in 
biosynthetic reactions. The cycle provides in­
termediates required for amino acid and nu­
cleotide biosynthesis (Figure 4-8). The enzyme 
activities generating these precursors must be 
Table 4-6. Enzyme reactions generating coenzymes for oxidative phosphorylation. 
ATP 
Enzyme reaction Location Coenzyme Produced 
Glyceraldehyde-3-Pi --> 1,3 diphosphoglycerate Cytoplasm NADH 2-3 
Pyruvate --> Acetyl-CoA Mitochondrion NADH 3 
Isocitrate --> a-Keto-glutarate + CO2 Mitochondrion NADH 3 
Isocitrate --> a-Keto-glutarate Cytoplasm NADPH 0 
a-Ketoglutarate --> Succinyl CoA + CO2 Mitochondrion NADH 3 
Succinate --> Fumarate Mitochondrion FADH2 2 
Malate --> Oxalacetic acid Mitochondrion NADH 3 Yeast and Biochemistry oj Ethanol Fermentation 131 
tyrosine glycine leucine cysteine t tryptophan t valin, \ alan~e t Mitochondrion 
fatty acids 
1f 
1f "'00'8,;: ... t PEP 8"'n~ I 
~ + 0( pyruvate --:::o---1~ acetyl CoA 
0( ~~ citrate 
erythrose-4-
phospate 
asparagine ~ aspartate 
t 
d' . . It+- aspartic lamlnr 1me a e . semlaldehyde 
lysine A 
Isoleucine ~ threonine methionine ~ ~ glutamine 
~NH' isocitrate malate t ~ 
fumarate a-ketoglutarate glutamate 
~ ~ t 
glutamic 
succinate 0( ... succinyl CoA semialdehyde 
~ ~ 
proline 
arginine 
Fig. 4-8. Role of TCA cycle organic acids in amino acid biosynthesis. 
present even under anaerobic conditions in 
Saccharomyces. Under anaerobic conditions, 
mature, fully functional mitochondria are not 
present in Saccharomyces. TCA cycle enzymes 
required for biosynthesis are not localized to 
the mitochondria as they are during respira­
tory metabolism, but are found instead in the 
cytoplasm. Although this has not yet been rig­
orously proven, the mitochondrial and cyto­
plasmic forms may be isozymes, that is, the 
products of separate genes. The TeA cycle 
does not exist as a complete cycle in the cyto­
plasm, but serves to form biosynthetic inter­
mediates or end products of amino acid 
metabolism. Reverse flow of the pathway con­
sumes acetyl-eoA and is involved in acetate 
ester formation. We refer to all these enzy­
matic reactions as the TeA pathway. 
If regeneration of NAD+ from NADH via 
conversion of acetaldehyde to ethanol is re­
stricted, the reductive arm of the TCA path­
way can be used to regenerate NAD + with the 
production of malate and succinate, acids 
which can be produced by yeast during wine 
fermentation. Alternatively, if reducing power (NADH) is needed, it can be generated via the 
oxidative arm of the TCA pathway. 
Saccharomyces also possess the glyoxylate cy­
cle (Figure 4-9). This cycle generates from 
two-carbon substrates the net production of 
TCA cycle intermediates required for macro­
molecular synthesis. Since the TeA cycle gives 
no net accumulation of intermediates, the 
yeasts can use the glyoxylate shunt for their 
net synthesis. Thus, yeast can use the glyoxyl­
ate cycle to synthesize sugars needed for cell 
wall structural components, glucan and man­
nan, from growth substrates such as ethanol 
and acetate. This pathway, obviously, only 
needs to operate when cells are growing in the 
absence of sugar. The glyoxylate cycle en­
zymes are also subject to glucose repression. 
Another important pathway for the produc­
tion of biosynthetic precursors is the pentose 
phosphate shunt (Figure 4-10). In some mi­
crobes, such as the heterolactic malolactic bac­
teria, this pathway is used to metabolize pen­
toses, allowing those organisms to use five­
carbon sugars as carbon and energy source. 
Such is not the case in Saccharomyces. Saccha-132 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
rOi f~-
CH:2 HC-OH 
I I -02C-C-OH "'~ ___ ---I~~ -O~-CH 
I I 
CH:2 CH:2 
I I 
C02- C~-
Citrate lsocitrate 
CHO 
I 
c~ 
CH~O-SCoA ------­
Acetyl CoA Glyoxylate f02-
HCH 
f02-
C ... O 
I 
HCH 
I 
CO{ 
Oxalacetate ~ C~­
I 
HO-CH 
I 
HCH 
I 
C~-
Malate I 
HCH 
I 
C02-
Succinate 
II 
II 
II 
Hexose 
Fig. 4-9. Enzymatic steps of the glyoxylate cycle. 
romyces requires this pathway for the genera­
tion of ribose-5-phosphate, a precursor for nu­
cleotide biosynthesis. Saccharomyces also uses 
this pathway to make erythrose-4-phosphate 
required for the initial step of the shikimic 
acid pathway, for the synthesis of the aromatic 
amino acids. This pathway also generates 
NADPH, which is also required for biosynthe­
sis. Thus, the pentose phosphate pathway is 
operational during both fermentative and res­
piratory growth. 
It is important to note that fermentation 
and respiration are not mutually exclusive 
modes of metabolism. Saccharomyces increases 
reliance on respiration for ATP production as 
fermentation becomes incapable of supplying 
needed ATP levels, provided oxygen is avail­
able and glucose concentrations are low. There 
is not an abrupt switch from fermentation to 
respiration, or from respiration to fermenta-tion. This is one reason yeasts require a period 
of adaptation to different growth conditions. 
Fermentative growth can be influenced by res­
piration capacity, depending upon growth 
conditions and the cellular demand for ATP. 
2. Noncarbon Nutrition 
Ammonium ion and most amino acids can 
serve as nitrogen sources for Saccharomyces. 
Lysine, histidine, and glycine are not well­
utilized by Saccharomyces. Urea, y-aminobutryic 
acid, short peptides, and purine and pyrimi­
dine bases (except thymine) can be degraded 
by Saccharomyces. Nitrate, nitrite and most other 
organic amines cannot be used. The ability to 
utilize a particular nitrogen-containing com­
pound as a nitrogen source is dependent upon 
several factors. For example, degradation of 
the amino acid proline requires molecular .... 
'-'" '-'" NADP NADPH + ft 
H203POCH2 ~ t H203POCH2 
O~o H """" Mg2++ 0 
OH 
Glucose-6-phosphate 
H~-OH 
C=O 
I 
HO·CH 
I 
HC-OH 
I 
HC-OH Glucose-6-Phosphate 
Dehydrogenase 
yHO 
HC-OH 
I 
C~OP03H2 
Glyceraldehyde-
3-Phosphate 
CH~P03H2 
Fructose-
6-phosphate 
Transketoiase Glucono-iHactone-
6-phosphate 
H2y-OH 
c=o 
I 
HO·CH 
I 
HC-OH 
I 
HC-OH 
C~OP03H2 
Fructose-
6-phosphate COOH 
I 
HC-OH 
HO-CH 
I NADP NADPH + ft, C02 
HO-CH 
I 
HC-OH 
Mg2++ > 
6-Phospho­
Gluconolactonase ~ H2y-OH 
Mg2++ H~-OH 
CH20P0 3H2 6-Phosphogluconate CH20POsH2 HC-OH 
I 
HC-OH 
dehydrogenase 
6-Phosphogluconate Ribulose-5-
Phosphate + C02 
H2y-OH 
C=O 
I 
HO·CH 
I 
HC-OH PhosPhoketo-j 
pentoepimerase 
H~-OH 
C=O ~PhosPhoribo­
isomerase 
CHO 
HC-OH 
HC-OH I 
HC-OH 
I I 
HO·CH 
H~-OH I 
HC-OH 
C~OP03H2 CH~P03H2 
Sedoheptulose- Xylulose-5-HC-OH 
C~OP03H2 
Ribose 
Transaldolase 7_P~ PI" J~~" 
Transketolase 
H~-OH 
c=o 
I 
HO·CH 
I 
HC-OH 
CH~P03H2 
Xyulose-5-
Phosphate 
Aromatic Amino Acids / CHO . 
HC-OH 
I 
HC-OH 
I 
C~OP03H2 
Erythrose-
4-phosphate CHO . 
HC-OH 
I 
C~OP03H2 
Glyceraldehyde-
3-Phosphate Nucleotide 
Bases 
Fig. 4-10. Enzymatic steps of the pentose phosphate pathway . 134 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
oxygen. Proline cannot be used as nitrogen 
source in the absence of oxygen. 
As a phosphate source, yeasts prefer inor­
ganic phosphate, but can use phosphate es­
ters. An acid phosphatase is secreted by Sac­
charomyces catalyzing the hydrolysis of these 
esters outside of the cell proper in the 
periplasmic space. Sulfate, sulfite, and thiosul­
fate can be utilized as sulfur sources, as can 
the sulfur-containing amino acids, cysteine and 
methionine, and homocysteine and S-adeno­
syl-methionine (Thomas et al. 1992). A recent 
report suggests that glutathione can also be 
used as a source of sulfur for Saccharomyces 
(Elskens et al. 1991). 
Typically, the only vitamin required by Sac­
charomyces is biotin, but other vitamins may be 
very stimulatory to growth (Castor and Archer 
1956). Saccharomyces readily depletes the 
medium of vitamins. Minerals are also needed, 
particularly Fe, Mg, Mn, Cu, Ca, K, and Zn. 
Sodium is relatively toxic to Saccharomyces, as it 
24 
20 
16 
12 
>< -a: 
Q) B 
4 
0 
·4 
0 100 200 
TIME (h) is in many plants, probably as an evolutionar:' 
consequence of the fact that it is not a preva­
lent ion in grape juice or other yeast-natural 
media. 
Nutrient limitations may result in a sluggish 
or incomplete fermentation, depending upon 
the extent of the limitation. Lack of nutrients 
may also result in the formation of undesirable 
end products of metabolism such as hydrogen 
sulfide and acetic acid. Nutrient supplementa­
tion with diammonium phosphate (DAP) is 
legally permitted up to a limit of 0.96 giL. 
and DAP addition is utilized by a number of 
wineries. 
Saccharomyces displays typical exponential 
growth kinetics in grape juice (Figure 4-11). If 
the inoculum has not been preadapted to 
growth in grape juice, there is an initial lag 
phase followed by exponential growth to a 
maximal cell density of around 2x108 
cellslmL. The reasons for this approximate 
maximum cell population are not clear, but it 
-E 
r::: 12 -J 
0 0 
CO Z 
0 10 <t - J: UJ ... U UJ Z B <t -> ., al --a: > ........... 
0 ... en z al LU <t 4 U ·2 U. a: 
0 w 
0. 
CJ 
0 
·3 -J 0 
300 
Fig. 4-11. Fennentation profile of grape juice. Absorbance (0); ethanol ( ... ); Brix (D). is true whether yeast growth or excessive inoc­
ulation has led to the population number. It 
should be noted that the growth rate in grape 
juice, even with a high concentration of nutri­
ents, is slower than would be expected because 
of the inhibitory effect of the sugar. In grape 
juice, approximately 50% of the total available 
sugar may be fermented during the growth 
phase and the remainder during stationary 
phase. Although net growth has ceased, the 
cells are still metabolically quite active at this 
stage. The death or decline in viable cell num­
bers will occur generally once the sugars have 
been depleted from the medium. The death 
phase is accelerated under conditions of low 
concentrations of Mg and Ca and under con­
ditions that result in low levels of sterols and 
fatty acids required for the production of an 
ethanol-tolerant plasma membrane. Release of 
small molecules may also occur. The release of 
hydrolytic enzymes from the vacuole is respon­
sible for the autodigestion, leakiness, and sub­
sequent rupture of the yeast cells, termed au­
tolysis. But this occurs under winemaking con­
ditions only several months after the end of 
the alcoholic fermentation. The release of 
small molecules can occur in fully viable cells 
and does during sur lies aging and should not 
be confused with autolysis. Cells that are au­
tolyzing are no longer viable. Yeast autolysis is 
important to the production of sparkling wines 
in the methode champenoise style. 
F. FERMENTATION BIOCHEMISTRY 
Saccharomyces metabolizes glucose and fructose 
to pyruvate via the glycolytic pathway. Primar­
ily in order to recycle cofactors, pyruvate is 
decarboxylated to acetaldehyde, which is then 
reduced to ethanol. One molecule of glucose 
(or fructose) yields two molecules each of 
ethanol and carbon dioxide. In a model fer­
mentation starting with about 22 to 24% sugar 
(22 to 24 Brix), 95% of the sugar is converted 
into ethanol and carbon dioxide, 1 % is con­
verted into cellular material, and the remain­
ing 4% is converted to other end products. Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 135 
Fermentation in terms of end products formed 
is inefficient as a significant amount of energy 
is lost as heat. In general, there is a 1.3°C rise 
in temperature for each Brix consumed per 
liter if heat is not removed by loss or cooling. 
A typical plot of consumption of sugar, pro­
duction of ethanol and biomass versus time is 
presented in Figure 4-11. Approximately 50% 
of the sugar in a typical wine fermentation is 
consumed by cells during the stationary phase, 
although this percentage may vary depending 
upon inoculum size, fermentation tempera­
ture, and nutrient availability (Kunkee and 
Bisson 1993). With a typical inoculum of 1x106 
cells/mL, as many as five to seven generations 
will occur to reach a final cell density of 1 to 
2x108 cells/mL. 
1. Glycolysis 
a. Glycolytic Pathway 
Glucose and fructose are converted to pyru­
vate via the glycolytic pathway (Figure 4-12). In 
fact, the glycolytic pathway, universal among 
the eucaryotes, was first delineated in yeast. 
The first cytoplasmic reaction is the phospho­
rylation of glucose to glucose-6-phosphate, cat­
alyzed by one of three enzymes: hexokinase PI 
(A), hexokinase PH (B), or glucokinase. ATP 
serves as the phosphate donor in this reaction. 
All three enzymes also catalyze the phosphory­
lation of mannose, but only the hexokinases 
catalyze the phosphorylation of fructose. Hex­
okinase PH is the major species present ini­
tially in grape juice fermentations, with hexok­
inase PI being expressed as the culture enters 
the stationary phase of growth and fermenta­
tion. Expression of glucokinase has not been 
extensively studied under these conditions. 
The next step in the pathway is the conver­
sion of glucose-6-phosphate to fructose-6-phos­
phate. This reaction is catalyzed by the en­
zyme phosphoglucose isomerase. Mutant 
strains of Saccharomyces have been isolated 
lacking phosphoglucose isomerase activIty. 
These mutants are unable to grow on glucose, 
meaning that glycolysis is the sole pathway in 
this organism for glucose catabolism. The pen-136 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Outside 
(medium) 
glucose-.,...-i! Inside 
(cytoplasmiC) 
glucose 
HXK .r- ATP 
GLK " 
glucose-6-phosphate 
fructose ~ ~ PGI 
ATP HX fructose-6 phosphate 
PFK f-ATP 
fructose 1,6-diphosphate ~ 
dihydroxyacetone ~ glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate 
TDH phosphate TPI ~ 
NAD+ ethanol ~'i"'N\I\+-- eth~anol' NADH, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate 
ADH H+ PGK -+-_ 
~ATP 
acetaldehyde 3-phosphoglycerate 
PGM~ 
2-phosphoglycerate 
ENO~ 
phosphoenol pyruvate 
PYK ~ATP 
pyruvate 
Fig. 4-12. Enzymatic steps of the glycolytic pathway HXT (hexose transporter), HXK 
(hexokinase) GLK (glucokinase), PGI (phosphoglucose isomera~e), PFK (phosphofructokinase), 
FBA (aldolase), TPI (triosephosphate isomerase), TDH (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydroge­
nase), PGK (phosphoglycerate kinase), PGM (phosphoglycerate mutase), ENO (enolase), PYK 
(pyruvate kinase), PDC (pyruvate decarboxylase), ADH (alcohol dehydrogenase). 
tose phosphate pathway, which in other organ­
isms can serve as a route of glucose catabolism 
appears to be involved only in the production 
of pentose phosphates as precursors of nucleic 
acid bases, and in the generation of the re­
duced cofactor, NADPH, which is required for 
a variety of anabolic reactions in Saccharomyces. 
Fructose-6-phosphate undergoes a second 
phosphorylation to fructose-l,6-bisphosphate, 
catalyzed by the enzyme phosphofructokinase. 
Again, ATP serves as the phosphate donor in 
this reaction. Phosphofructokinase is an al-losteric enzyme, and its activity is modulated 
by a wide variety of effectors: ATP, ADP, AMP, 
citrate, Mg, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, to name 
a few. This step in the pathway is a key site of 
regulation of overall metabolic flux, or flow of 
carbon through the pathway. 
The next enzyme, aldolase, catalyzes the 
hydrolysis offructose 1,6-bisphosphate to dihy­
droxyacetone phosphate and glyceraldehyde-
3-phosphate. Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate is 
the molecule ultimately converted to pyruvate, 
and the enzyme triosephosphate isomerase will interconvert dihydroxyacetone phosphate and 
glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate. 
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate is converted to 
1,3-diphosphoglycerate by the enzyme glycer­
aldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Inor­
ganic phosphate serves as the phosphate donor 
in this reaction. Since this reaction is an oxida­
tion, the cofactor NAD + is required which is 
reduced to NADH. 
To this point, two molecules of ATP have 
been consumed, and two molecules of NADH 
generated. No net energy has been produced. 
The next step, the conversion of 1,3-diphos­
phoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate results in 
the generation of one molecule of ATP. At 
this point, two molecules of ATP have been 
consumed and two produced (one for each 
three-carbon unit), so the net energy balance 
IS zero. 
The next three steps of glycolysis result in 
the generation of a high-energy phosphate 
bond which can be used to synthesize a second 
molecule of ATP. Phosphoglycerate mutase 
catalyzes the formation of 2-phosphoglycerate 
from 3-phosphoglycerate. Enolase generates 
phosphoenolpyruvate from 2-phosphog­
lycerate. Pyruvate kinase catalyzes ATP pro­
duction from ADP and phosphoenolpyruvate, 
generating pyruvate as an end product. At this 
point, assuming all carbon has gone through 
glycolysis, two molecules of ATP have been 
consumed early in the pathway, but four 
molecules generated subsequently for a net 
production of two molecules of ATP for each 
glucose or fructose molecule metabolized. 
However, a reduced cofactor, NADH, has been 
generated which must be recycled in order for 
fermentation to continue. 
b. Ethanol Yield 
Various organisms have evolved different 
strategies for the regeneration of NAD + from 
NADH. In Saccharomyces, acetaldehyde serves 
as the ultimate electron acceptor, being re­
duced to ethanol. Pyruvate is first decarboxyl­
ated by pyruvate decarboxylase to yield carbon 
dioxide and acetaldehyde. This enzymatic step 
requires thiamine pyrophosphate as a cofac-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 137 
tor. Acetaldehyde is reduced to ethanol by 
alcohol dehydrogenase, regenerating NAD+. 
There are four species or isozymes of alcohol 
dehydrogenase in Saccharomyces, designated 
ADHI, II, III, and IV. ADHI is the species 
present for alcoholic fermentation, responsi­
ble for the conversion of acetaldehyde to 
ethanol. It is constitutive, but the concentra­
tion or activity is dependent upon the growth 
phase, stage of fermentation temperature, and 
yeast strain (Kunkee 1990). ADHII and III are 
glucose repressed, meaning they are not found 
during fermentative growth on high sugar 
concentrations, but are expressed instead dur­
ing aerobic growth with ethanol as a carbon 
and energy source. ADHIII is localized to the 
mitochondrion, while ADHII is cytoplasmic. 
ADHII can compensate for loss of ADHI at 
very low concentrations of glucose and permit 
fermentative growth, ADHIII cannot. ADHIV 
is present in the cell at a very low activity level. 
Its metabolic function is uncertain. Alcohol 
dehydrogenase requires Zn. 
The amount of ethanol produced per unit 
of sugar during the wine fermentation is of 
considerable commercial importance. The 
theoretical conversion of 180 g of sugar into 
88 g of CO 2 and 92 g of ethanol (or 51.1 % on 
a weight basis) could only be expected in the 
absence of any yeast growth and loss of ethanol 
as vapor. Pasteur's original experiments indi­
cated that he observed an ethanol yield of 
48.5% w /w, with 46.7% as carbon dioxide and 
the balance of 4.8% w /w going to glycerol, 
succinate and other products, including yeast 
cell mass. One early figure used in U.S. tabula­
tions for the estimation of potential ethanol 
was the empirical value of 47.0% w/w pre­
sented by Bioletti (Marsh 1958). 
Alternatively, a number of studies have tried 
to determine empirical conversion factors that 
go directly from the Brix value to the final 
ethanol content on a volume basis: 
[EtOH] %v/v = a + b*Brix 
where values of the factor b range from 0.55 
to 0.63 depending on the growing region 138 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
(perhaps more due to the cultivars within the 
region) and the season. Ough and Amerine 
(1963) calculated such a factor for several years 
and for wines from various locations in Cali­
fornia. They reported factors ranging between 
0.55 and 0.61 %v Iv per Brix with the higher 
values being from grapes grown in cooler 
coastal regions. A more recent investigation of 
the same factor by Jones and Ough (1985) 
found values of 0.575 to 0.605, again with 
grapes grown in the coastal regions providing 
the higher conversions. There were differ­
ences due to cultivars {0.580 for Colombard 
and 0.603 for ZinfandeO and slight 
seasonal variation between the two years 
considered. 
The reasons for the variations reported can 
be explained in part by a consideration of the 
nature of the nonsugar components. The 
quantity of these materials will vary from sea­
son to season, and from region to region, and 
so will their contribution to carbon of the cell 
mass that would otherwise come from sugar 
(and therefore not appear as ethanol) (see also 
Chapter 5). 
The other contributing factor to the varia­
tion in conversion factor is the variation in the 
sugar determination. The extraction of fer­
mentable sugar from the skins during the first 
days of fermentation is a major cause of ele­
vated conversion factors since the ethanol 
formed comes from sugar which does not ap­
pear in the initial sugar determination. This is 
especially true of certain red cultivars such as 
Pinot noir and Zinfandel, that show a ten­
dency to dehydrate under dry conditions. 
c. Extract in Wines 
The concentration of the components other 
than sugar and ethanol in wines has been 
given considerable attention by regulating 
bodies, especially in Europe. The adulteration 
of wines with water or dissolved materials at 
the gram per liter level is often detected by 
the determination of the sugar-free extract. 
This is especially true in small districts in which 
there is little variation in the cultivars that are 
grown and similar winemaking practices are employed. The largest variation is attributed 
to seasonal effects, but when all of the wines of 
one season are compared, those with unusu­
ally low or high extracts will be obvious. The 
application of these empirical values to wines 
today or to wines from different countries is 
far less valid. The use of heat treatments, yeast 
strain, and even hydrolytic enzymes can lead 
to variations that are comparable in magni­
tude to those that might be expected by illegal 
additions. The extract value is still an interest­
ing measure of solute concentrations in berries 
and the extent to which they have been ex­
tracted (and perhaps precipitated) during the 
fermentation and is sometimes used within 
wine companies for comparative purposes. 
The major components in the extract of dry 
wines are glycerol and the organic acids. The 
quantity of glycerol produced can range from 
5 to 8 giL depending on the initial sugar 
content, fermentation temperature, yeast 
strain, and pantothenic acid levels. The tar­
taric acid content can change from that in the 
juice due to precipitation as potassium bitar­
trate during fermentation. This is greatly af­
fected by the fermentation temperature, the 
surface roughness of the fermentor, and the 
interference of crystallization due to polysac­
charides and other colloidal components. The 
malic acid is partially consumed by the yeast 
and there are pH, strain, and temperature 
effects on the extent to which this occurs 
(Rankine 1966; Radler and Fuck 1970). Some 
of the malate will appear as ethanol but much 
of it is converted into succinic acid at levels 
between 0.8 and 1.5 giL. The levels of acetic 
and lactic acid are of the order of 0.3 to 0.5 
giL each and a similar amount of the 2,3 
butanediols are found (Winger 1982). 
The amount of cell mass generated is 
strongly correlated with the initial amount of 
non proline amino nitrogen content, and 
higher yeast populations will result in more 
carbon being converted into the nonsoluble 
cell mass. Typical final cell masses of 6 to 8 
giL can be found in white wine fermenta­
tions, again with variations due to the yeast 
strain and the level of other nutrients. Fermentation temperature also influences 
the evaporative loss of ethanol which can be as 
much as 1 giL (which will not appear in the 
extract determination in any case) and the 
precipitation of potassium bitartrate can lead 
to a loss of perhaps 1 giL from the extract 
balance. Wet extract values (determined by 
measuring the density of a wine after the evap­
oration of ethanol and the return to its initial 
volume with water) have been found to aver­
age approximately 22 giL for dry white wines 
(Winger 1982), with the biggest effects due to 
yeast strain and fermentation temperature. 
While the use of a nonsugar extract value of 
30 giL would seem high if applied to wines 
from California, any value in the range of 18 
to 26 giL would be within one standard devia­
tion of the mean. This extract value corre­
sponds to an ethanol equivalent of 10.5 giL, 
or approximately 1.35% v Iv if it was all fer­
mentable sugars and completely fermented. 
In wines with residual sugar, the extract will 
include the unfermented sugars and have 
slightly less of the glycerol. Some groups ana­
lyze for the residual sugar content and then 
calculate the nonreducing sugar extract in or­
der to compare it to that for dry wines. A 
nomogram for the estimation of this extract in 
terms of the ethanol content and the density 
of the wines has been developed by Vahl 
(I 979). It is reproduced in Figure 4-13. 
d. Regulation of Glycolysis 
Three enzymatic steps of the glycolytic path­
way (glucose to pyruvate) are irreversible: hex­
okinase (glucokinase), phosphofructokinase, 
and pyruvate kinase. The remainder of the 
enzymes function in gluconeogenesis (the pro­
duction of glucose or glucose-6-phosphate 
from respiratory substrates such as pyruvate) as 
well as glycolysis. In the anabolic direction, 
fructose bisphosphatase catalyzes the conver­
sion of fructose 1-6,diphosphate to fructose-6-
phosphate, and PEP carboxykinase replaces 
pyruvate kinase, generating phosphoenolpyru­
vate from oxalacetic acid and ATP. The irre­
versible steps are important sites of control of 
flux through their respective pathways of gly-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 139 
d 20 BRIX 
20 20'C 
1.0.25 
.6.0. 
EXTRACT 
Q/ liter 
1.0.20. .5.0. 10.0. 
% ALCo.Ho.L 
.4.0. 90. by volume 
1.0.15 01 20'C 
80. 14.0. +3.0. 
1.0.10. 70. 
.2.0 13.0. 
60. 
1.0.0.5 
.1.0 50. 
12.0. 
1.00.0. 0. 40. 
30. 11.0 
-1.0 
0..995 
20. 
-2.0. 10..0 
10. 
0.990 
-3.0. 0. 9.0. 
0985 
Fig. 4-13. The ethanol-density-extract nomograph for 
table wines. 
colysis or gluconeogenesis. Inhibition of phos­
phofructokinase activity by ATP and citric acid 
has been postulated as being largely responsi­
ble for the decline in fermentation rate of 
glucose, and an important operative switch in 
the so-called Pasteur effect. However, control 
of carbon flux through glycolysis is probably 
not mediated by a single rate-limiting step. 
Multiple points of control serve to coordinate 
upper glycolysis (or energy consumption) with 
lower glycolysis (net energy production). 
The major site of control of the rate of 
anaerobic glycolysis is the step of entry of the 
sugar into the cell, or sugar transport. Sugar 
transport in Saccharomyces is a kinetically com-140 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
plex process in that there appear to be several 
glucose transporters of differing affinities and 
times of expression. Many factors affect both 
the number and kinds of transporters present 
in the plasma membrane: sugar concentration, 
stage of growth, presence or absence of 
molecular oxygen, growth rate, rate of flux 
through glycolysis, and nutrient availability 
(particularly of nitrogen). In this sense, glu­
cose uptake is not rate-limiting in glycolysis, 
but rather the principal site of rate control, 
any alteration in rate of flux being translated 
into a compensating alteration in rate of up­
take of substrate. These factors ensure that the 
rate of glucose uptake will equal that of 
metabolism and will adapt quickly to any 
changes in metabolism. The reason that con­
trol of entry is important lies in the fact that 
ATP is consumed early in glycolysis but gener­
ated late in the pathway. Any block in 
metabolism would or could result in the con­
version of total cellular ATP to ADP in the 
production of glucose-6-phosphate, leaving in­
sufficient ATP to complete metabolism via the 
pathway. ATP depletion occurs rapidly with 
the substrate 2-deoxyglucose which can be 
phosphorylated but not metabolized further. 
Control at the site of entry allows the cell to 
assess its metabolic state at time of crisis to 
avoid a costly error in energy consumption. 
Under aerobic growth conditions, control at 
the site of transport is not as tight as it is 
under anaerobic conditions, perhaps reflect­
ing the fact that respiration yields much more 
ATP per glucose molecule than does fermen­
tation. 
At increasing concentrations of sugar, sugar 
uptake and, therefore, sugar consumption, is 
inhibited. This phenomenon is termed sub­
strate inhibition. Winemakers are aware that at 
extremely high concentrations of sugar, as 
found in grape juice concentrates and in 
honey-having approximately 70 Brix-Sac­
charomyces fermentations are completely inhib­
ited. However, the substrate inhibition we are 
discussing here is noticeable at very low con­
centrations of sugar (> 8.0 giL glucose)-al­
though this concentration might seem ex-tremely high to yeast researchers not accus­
tomed to thinking in enological terms. Mecha­
nistically, substrate inhibition is thought to re­
flect more than one point of attachment of 
the substrate to its respective transporter. At 
high substrate concentrations, more than one 
molecule may attempt to bind simultaneously, 
thereby inhibiting overall binding and uptake. 
Growth conditions seem to influence whether 
or not glucose-mediated substrate inhibition 
of uptake occurs. This observation may indi­
cate that substrate inhibition is not a common 
trait of all sugar transporters. Thus, under 
some conditions of growth a transporter with 
more than one point of attachment for sub­
strate may be expressed. Jamming of transport 
by a sudden high concentration of substrate 
may reflect an important site of metabolic 
control, limiting flux of substrate until cellular 
metabolism can adapt to the change. 
In fermentations of mixtures of glucose and 
fructose, glucose can be seen to disappear 
more quickly than fructose, leading to the 
description of strains as "glucophilic." We 
have seen reports of "fructophilic" Saccha­
romyces, but have not been able to reproduce 
these observations in our own laboratories, 
although strains of Zygosaccharomyces are often 
fructophilic. The historical reports of fruc­
tophilic Saccharomyces are likely erroneous due 
to the polarographic analyses utilized. The 
difference in rates of disappearance of glucose 
and fructose is most likely due to the differ­
ences in kinetic properties of the sugar trans­
porters for these two substrates. The differ­
ences become especially important to the 
wine maker toward the end of grape juice fer­
mentation, when glucose is completely fer­
mented but the other sweeter sugar, fructose, 
is still present (see below). 
The mode of metabolism of sugars in Sac­
charomyces is largely dictated by the concentra­
tion of sugars in the medium. At sugar con­
centration of greater than 2 giL, fermenta­
tion is the preferred mode of metabolism, 
whereas respiration is utilized at lower sugar 
concentrations. This is achieved by two regula­
tory phenomena: glucose repression and glu-cose inactivation. Glucose repression has been 
discussed previously. 
Glucose inactivation refers to the inhibition 
of activity and subsequent proteolytic destruc­
tion of many of the same proteins that are 
regulated by glucose repression and is also 
catalyzed by high sugar concentration. In the 
cases where it has been best examined, this 
process appears to involve protein phosphory­
lation as an initial step with subsequent degra­
dation occurring by the yeast proteases pre­
sent in the vacuole. The initial phosphoryla­
tion event is reversible, allowing the cells a 
window of time to determine if there is indeed 
sufficient sugar present to commit to fermen­
tation. As yet, unknown mechanisms are re­
sponsible for the delivery of the proteins to 
the vacuole for degradation. 
Why would cells evolve preferring to fer­
ment even in the presence of oxygen when 
more ATP can be produced during respiration 
per glucose molecule consumed? Respiration 
is an expensive process, requiring more in the 
way of enzymatic machinery and mitochondria 
which can be dispensed with during fermenta­
tion. Thus, while respiration produces more 
energy, more energy is consumed in maintain­
ing respiratory capacity. If sugar is not limit­
ing, fermentation allows a fast growth rate and 
the same total amount of ATP can be pro­
duced. In grape juice, sugar is never the limit­
ing nutrient, meaning that carbon and energy 
are plentiful. 
A related regulatory phenomenon is re­
ferred to as the Pasteur effect. This effect is 
the inhibition of fermentation by oxygen. 
Oxygen availability will foster respiration over 
fermentation as an energy-generating pathway 
only if glucose (or fructose) concentrations are 
low and if some other nutrient, such as nitro­
gen, is limiting. Aeration of grape juice fer­
mentations will not result in a respiratory mode 
of metabolism as sugar concentrations are sim­
ply too high, even in stationary phase when 
nitrogen is low. Aeration of grape juice will 
stimulate yeast growth, but this is not due to 
respiration (see p. 139). Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 141 
In addition, ethanol is disruptive of lipid 
bilayers and toxic to most microorganisms at 
the concentrations produced by Saccharomyces. 
Rapid fermentation producing a toxic end 
product confers a competitive advantage to an 
ethanol-tolerant organism such as Saccha­
romyces. Saccharomyces can utilize ethanol as a 
carbon and energy source aerobically, and this 
is seen in the production of flor sherry by 
surface yeast in dry wines. If oxygen becomes 
available and glucose concentration is low, 
Saccharomyces can readily utilize ethanol as a 
carbon and energy source. Many organisms, 
including humans, metabolize ethanol for 
energy. 
G. FERMENTATION KINETICS 
Grape juices have the highest sugar concentra­
tion among the many substrates used for the 
production of ethanol by fermentation. As a 
result, the level of ethanol is among the high­
est seen and the importance of substrate and 
ethanol inhibition of growth, cell viability, and 
maintenance activity is far greater than those 
in brewing or other fermented beverages. 
The wine fermentation is a good example 
of a fermentation in which there are major 
contributions due to both cell growth and the 
resting phase maintenance activity. In many 
white wine fermentations the growth of cell 
mass has essentially ceased at a point at which 
one-half to one-third of the sugar remains 
(Castor and Archer 1956). The remainder of 
the fermentation is conducted by the mainte­
nance or turnover activity of non growing but 
viable and fermenting cells. 
Any description of the kinetics of wine fer­
mentations must therefore include both of 
these activities. Unfortunately the study of fer­
mentation conditions generally places an inor­
dinate amount of attention of factors influ­
encing growth, with far less study directed to 
the conditions that influence the resting be­
havior and viability of the cells. 
There are several reasons for the develop­
ment of a suitable mathematical description of 142 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
the fermentation process. These include the 
ability to interpret fermentation measure­
ments with a view to the early detection of 
poor fermentation performance, the ability to 
predict future fermentation behavior, and the 
application to the design and advanced con­
trol of fermentations and the optimization of 
their refrigeration systems. 
1. The Rate of Cell Growth 
The rate of cell growth can be expressed in 
terms of the specific growth rate, J.L and the 
viable cell mass, Xv. 
dX/dt = J.L[XJ 
Several studies with yeast have suggested 
that the specific growth rate is determined by 
the rate of transport into the cells of the 
growth-limiting substrate (van Uden 1971). In 
adequate media this is simply the rate of up­
take of the sugars, glucose and fructose, but in 
deficient media it will be determined by the 
rate of transport of other nutrients such as 
amino acids, ammonia, or of any growth-limit­
ing nutrient such as the vitamins. 
The general expression for the specific 
growth rate in terms of a single uninhibited 
substrate [S] concentration (Monod 1949) is: 
where J.L is the specific growth rate at a con­
centration of substrate [S] that is limiting; J.Lm 
is the maximum specific growth rate which 
would occur at saturating concentrations of 
substrate; Km is a constant numerically equal 
to the substrate concentration at which J.L = 
J.Lm/2. In grape juices, the two hexose sugars 
inhibit each other's uptake in a competitive 
way (van Uden 1971) and the ethanol pro­
duced does so in a noncompetitive manner 
(Aiba and Shoda 1969). This results in a more 
complex expression for rate of substrate trans­
port and therefore growth: where I is the competitive inhibitor concen­
tration (glucose for the growth on fructose 
and vice versa) and Ki is the corresponding 
substrate inhibition constant. Noncompetitive 
inhibition by the product P (ethanol) is scaled 
by a corresponding product inhibition con­
stant, Kp. 
2. Cell Growth and Substrate Preference 
The rate of consumption of each sugar due to 
the growth activity can be expressed in terms 
of the growth rate and cell yield for that sugar 
together with its consumption by the mainte­
nance activity. 
The maximum specific growth rate J.Lm, the 
concentration of the sugar (e.g., glucose, G) 
being transported and the inhibitory influence 
of the competing sugar (e.g., fructose, F) and 
the inhibiting product ethanol, E: 
J.Lg = J.Lm[Gl![ KmO + [Fl!K j) + [G]]/ 
[1 + [E]jKe] 
where Kj is the competitive inhibition con­
stant for fructose, and Ke is the noncompeti­
tive inhibition constant for ethanol. 
A similar expression can be written for the 
rate of utilization of fructose: 
J.Lj = J.Lm[F]j[ Km(H[G]jK g) + [F]]/ 
[1 + [E]jKe] 
The relative values of the constants Kg and 
Kj are related to the substrate preference of 
the yeast strain and they have been estimated 
for a number of wine yeast strains (Johnston 
1983). All of the yeasts considered are glu­
cophilic and consume glucose more rapidly 
than fructose (Figure 4-14). For some yeasts, 
the rates of utilization are similar, but for 
others the glucose is almost completely con­
sumed before the fructose begins to be uti­
lized. 
3. Sugar Consumption by 
Cell Maintenance 
The consumption of a sugar (and the produc­
tion of ethanol) due to the maintenance activ-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 143 
100 
80 
:J :g, 
c 60 0 ,::; 
10 
~ C 
Q) 40 g 
0 U 
20 
Time (Hcxrs) 
o Fructose • Glucose 
100r---~------------------------------------~ 
80 
60 
40 
20 
OL----L----L---~----~~~~~~~~ 
o 25 50 75 100 125 
Time (Hours) 
o Fructose • Glucose 
(b) 
ity is generally expressed in terms of the viable 
cell mass and the specific maintenance rate, 
m: 
dSjdt = m[Xvl 
The maintenance activity is generally con­
sidered to be the turnover energy of the non­
growing cell as it degrades and rebuild en­
zymes and maintains the concentration gradi­
ents across its membrane. 150 175 
Fig. 4-14. Selective hexose utiliza­
tion by wine yeast. (a) Montrachet 
UCD #522; and (b) Champagne 
UCD #595. 
4. Rate of Sugar Consumption 
The combined rate of glucose consumption 
due to the growth and maintenance activities 
can be written: 
/Lg[ X] 
dCjdt = --- -m [X ] y g v 
where mg is the specific maintenance rate for 
glucose, multiplied by the total number of 144 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
viable cells and Y is the cell yield, that is the 
mass ratio of the cells produced and to mass of 
substrate used for growth. (This is a special 
definition of yield coefficient necessary in the 
special case when the substrate in question is 
also an energy source.) X is cell mass and /-Lg 
the maximum specific growth rate for glucose, 
as defined above. With a corresponding form 
for fructose: 
/-Lf[ X 1 dF/dt = --- -m [x ] Y f v 
where mg and mf are the maintenance rates 
based on each sugar. These maintenance rates 
are considered to be the same in the absence 
of any data indicating otherwise. There is a 
need for more detailed studies of the influ­
ence of juice nutrients and cell age effects on 
the maintenance activity of wine yeast. 
Total sugar utilization is simply the sum of 
these rates: 
dS/dt = dC/dt + dF /dt 
and this rate can be expressed in other mea­
sures of sugar concentration such as Brix, 
Baume, or Oechsle that are more familiar to 
winemakers. 
5. Rates of Cell Death 
The fermentation activities are deliberatelyex­
pressed in terms of the viable cell mass, since, 
in wine fermentations the viability is not always 
100% and there is a significant decline in 
viability in the later stages of the fermentation. 
Unfortunately, there are very few studies of 
the rate of death of cells due to the ethanol 
concentration and even fewer mathematical 
descriptions of it. A first attempt has been to 
assume that cell viability declines in a manner 
related to both fermentation time and ethanol 
content: 
where the viability constant Kv is related to 
strain and medium conditions such as the ini-tial oxygen content, nutrItIOn, and tempera­
ture. There is a need for studies to further 
quantify these effects and to improve the 
mathematical descriptions of cell viability. 
6. Rate of Formation of Ethanol 
The rate of formation of ethanol is directly 
related to the utilization of the sugar and the 
conversion yield, typically reported to be ap­
proximately 95%. 
dE/dt = 0.95 * 92/180 * dS/dt 
7. Rate of Change in Density 
The rate of change in solution properties such 
as Brix or other density measures can also be 
predicted from the rates of change in mass 
and volume of the medium: 
dB/dt = d(M/V)/dt 
= [dM/dt * V -dV /dt * M ]jv2 
The first term represents the rate of change 
in mass and the second represents the rate of 
change in volume. The overall volume change 
dV during fermentation is approximately 5% 
and half that of the change in mass, dM (ap­
proximately 10%). The rate of change in den­
sity is primarily due to the mass term, dm / dt /V 
with a secondary correction for the change in 
volume, dV /dt * M/V2. 
This is why the use of mass or weight 
changes (which are independent of tempera­
ture) correlate well with the density changes 
(El Haliou et al. 1987). The use of weight loss 
as a measure of fermentation progress was 
used as early as the mid 1950s (Schanderl 
1959). Weight changes can be used in process 
monitoring (see Chapter 5 for examples of 
this) rather than the more usual density mea­
sures (which are temperature dependent). It 
also shows why the rate of CO 2 evolution, 
which is proportional to the mass term dm / dt, 
can be used as an alternative for process mea­
surements. 8. Temperature Effects 
Any comprehensive description of the fermen­
tation should include the effects of tempera­
ture on the various activities and properties of 
the yeast. The temperature effect on cell 
growth rate is well described by the summa­
tion of an exponential growth term and a 
concurrent death term: 
and estimates of the activation energies, Eactg 
and Eactd ' are 60,668 and 506,264 k]/mole, 
respectively (Boulton 1980). R is the gas con­
stant and T is temperature, in K. The effect of 
temperature on the growth rate of a brewing 
yeast together with the temperature expres­
sion shown here can be found in Figure 4-15. 
Corresponding activation energies for the 
maintenance term have not been determined 
for wine yeast and are assumed to be 37,656 
k]/mole based on other organisms (Boulton 
1980). There is a need for continuous culture 
studies of the grape juice fermentation to de­
termine a number of these constants for wine 
yeasts under wine-like conditions. 
There is new information indicating an ef­
fect of ethanol concentration (van Uden and 
Cruz Duarte 1981) on the rate of the concur-
0040 
0.35 ,.... 
I X 0.30 
$ 0.25 III a: 
~ 0.20 
0 0 0.15 
0 i;: 
.~ 0.10 
at 0.05 o o 
0.00 
0 10 20 
Temperature (e) Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 145 
rent death term in the above expression and 
this can be included in future developments of 
this fermentation model. These authors also 
showed that the maximum growth tempera­
ture was affected by the ethanol concentra­
tion, falling from 41°C in the absence of 
ethanol to 30°C at 10% ethanol. 
9. Rates of Heat Release 
Of more importance than the quantity of heat 
released is the rate at which it is released or 
escapes from the fermentor. The rate of re­
lease is determined by the rate of fermenta­
tion and this is in itself a function of the must 
temperature. The rate of accumulation of en­
ergy in the form of a rise in temperature is the 
difference between the rates of generation by 
fermentation and of removal by various cool­
ing mechanisms. The main cooling contribu­
tion will be from heat transfer in equipment 
such as jackets, coils, or external exchangers. 
Other components will be the removal of en­
ergy in the form of water and ethanol vapors 
in the exit gas and the exchange by convective 
and radiative heat transfer to (and from) the 
ambient air and surroundings. The cooling 
effect due to the evaporation of water and 
ethanol increases as the temperature increases 
and is of the order of 10% of the heat gener-
30 40 
Fig. 4-15. Effect of temperature 
on the growth rate of yeast. 146 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
ated. The interchange with the surroundings 
can vary from a loss of between 5 and 10% of 
the fermentation release to gains of up to 
twice that if the fermenting juice is cold with 
respect to the ambient or when a significant 
gain due to solar radiation contribution oc­
curs. 
One of the most important calculations that 
can be made is that of the instantaneous rate 
of heat release from each fermentor in order 
the predict the dynamic values of the cooling 
requirement for any number of fermentors 
with differing starting times and temperatures 
of fermentation. The development of this fer­
mentation model and its application to such 
calculations was first demonstrated a number 
of years ago (Boulton 1979, 1980). A more 
extensive treatment of fermentation cooling 
requirements can be found in Chapter 5. 
H. END PRODUCTS OF 
YEAST METABOLISM 
One of the principal end products of sugar 
metabolism by Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its 
closely related species is, of course, ethanol, 
giving some 92 to 95% conversion of the sugar. 
Carbon dioxide is also formed, in equal molar 
amounts to ethanol, but most of the CO 2 
escapes into the atmosphere during and after 
the fermentation. Even so, it should be noted 
that carbon dioxide is very highly soluble in 
wine, especially in comparison with other at­
mospheric gases, nitrogen and oxygen. At 
high pressures, yeast fermentation is slowed 
and eventually stopped, presumably by CO 2 
toxicity. 
Other major end products including glyc­
erol and various volatile and nonvolatile or­
ganic acids are discussed directly below; the 
higher (fuse!) alcohols are discussed in Sec­
tions H.2 and 1.7. The volatile esters, pro­
duced in small amounts but having great im­
pact on the quality of the final product, are 
discussed at the end of this chapter (Section 
M), while the often unpleasant odorous 
sulfur-containing compounds are discussed in the section on sulfur metabolism (Section J). 
Spoilage end products, coming from non-Sac­
charomyces sources, are discussed in Chapter 9. 
Diacetyl, which has a sweet butter-like off­
aroma, can make an important contribution to 
the flavor profile of a wine. While it and its 
close relatives, acetoin and butane-2,3-diol, are 
formed by yeasts, their presence in wine more 
generally comes from lactic acid bacteria 
(Chapter 6). The pathway of formation di­
acetyl in yeasts involves a decarboxylation of 
a-keto-acetolactate, which is an intermediate 
in the pathway of formation of valine from 
pyruvate. The two other compounds, generally 
considered flavorless, are either reduction 
products of diacetyl or come directly from 
a-keto-acetolactate. The formation of diacetyl 
by yeast is of far greater consequence in brew­
ing than in winemaking-the formation is 
stimulated by aeration of the yeast, which more 
commonly occurs in brewing-probably be­
cause its flavor threshold in beer would be 
lower. 
1. Glycerol, Volatile, and Nonvolatile 
Organic Acids 
Except for acetic acid, a volatile acid, the 
other organic acids, such as pyruvate and the 
acids of the TCA cycle, are not of much conse­
quence as wine flavor components. The or­
ganic acids may derive from either sugar or 
amino acid catabolism, depending upon 
growth conditions and available nitrogen 
sources. Acetic acid may also arise as a conse­
quence of fatty acid metabolism. Enzymes of 
the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and electron 
transport chain are required for respiration, 
the complete oxidation of the six carbon atoms 
of glucose to six molecules of CO 2. In addition 
to a role in energy metabolism, the tricar­
boxylic acid cycle serves to equilibrate pools of 
organic acids utilized for biosynthesis of the 
precursors of macromolecules, particularly of 
amino acids. Amino acids utilized as nitrogen 
sources yield organic acids of the TCA cycle. 
Thus, while the TCA cycle per se is not essen­
tial for energy production during anaerobic fermentation, the organic acids produced by 
some of the enzymatic reactions of the cycle 
are still needed for biosynthesis. 
Under anaerobic conditions, cytoplasmic 
forms of all of the enzymes of the TCA cycle 
are synthesized with the exception of a-keto­
glutarate dehydrogenase and succinyl-CoA 
synthase (Polakis and Bartley 1965; Polakis et 
al. 1965; Beck and von Meyenburg 1968; 
Chapman and Bartley 1968; Duntze et al. 
1969). These enzymatic characterizations were 
extensive. However, Radler recently reported 
observations of these activities in fermentative 
yeasts (Radler 1992). This discrepancy may be 
explained by strain differences as a single mu­
tational event can alter the pattern of expres­
sion of these enzymes. There are two paths of 
metabolism from pyruvate (Figure 4-16), a re­
ductive pathway producing malate, fumarate, 
and succinate, and an oxidative pathway to 
a-keto-glutarate, which is an important nitro­
gen acceptor for biosynthesis of nitrogen-con­
taining compounds. Entry of pyruvate into the 
TCA cycle or its cytoplasmic equivalent is via 
oxalacetic acid. Oxalacetic acid is formed from 
pyruvate and CO2 via pyruvate carboxylase, an 
enzyme requiring biotin as cofactor. As biotin 
is the only essential vitamin required by Sac­
charomyces species, a rare biotin-deficient grape 
juice may have a striking impact on yeast 
metabolism and end products. 
When grape must or juice is inoculated 
with aerobically grown Saccharomyces, as is the 
case with an active dry starter, ethanol is not 
immediately produced (Pena et al. 1972; Whit­
ing 1976). In respiring cells, pyruvate decar­
boxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADHI) 
activities are low. Both of these enzymes are 
induced by the presence of glucose (Denis et 
al. 1983; Rieger et al. 1983; Schmitt et al. 1983; 
Sharma and Tauro 1986). As a consequence, 
compounds other than ethanol are initially 
produced at the beginning of fermentation of 
grape juice. Glycerol, pyruvate, and succinate 
are formed at this time, as are other organic 
acids (Ribereau-Gayon et al. 1956a, 1956b). 
Glycerol derives from sugar and is formed 
from dihydroxyacetone phosphate, one prod-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 147 
pyruvate 
ATP T CO2 
NADH Y oxala~etic y Acetyl CoA I aCId \ 
malate 
~ 
fumarate 
NADH~ 
succinate 
Reductive 
Pathway citrate 
~ 
isocitrate 
CO2+-NADPH 
a-ketoglutarate 
Oxidative 
Pathway 
Fig. 4-16. Anaerobic cytoplasmic TeA pathways. 
uct of the aldolase reaction, via two enzymatic 
reactions (Figure 4-17). Dihydroxyacetone 
phosphate is reduced to glycerol phosphate by 
dihydroxyacetone phosphate reductase, con­
verting one molecule of NADH to NAD+. 
Glycerol phosphate is then dephosphorylated 
by glycerol phosphate phosphatase yielding 
glycerol. A ratio between pyruvate and glyc­
erol seems to be maintained as these compo­
nents are found in equimolar concentration in 
the medium. Both may be reconsumed later in 
fermentation. Overproduction of glycerol oc­
curs in the presence of high S02 (Neuberg 
1946). S02 forms a complex with acetalde­
hyde, thus making this compound unavailable 
for reduction and regeneration of NAD + from 
NADH. S02 will also form a complex with 
thiamine preventing synthesis of thiamine py­
rophosphate, a cofactor for pyruvate decar­
boxylase, the enzyme generating acetaldehyde. 
Glycerol formation may serve as a route for 
regeneration of NAD + from NADH. However, 
in this process no net ATP can be produced if 
all triose units are shunted to glycerol and it is 
therefore energetically unfavorable and bio­
logically unfeasible for excessive glycerol pro­
duction to be an end product of glycolysis. 
Some winemakers believe that increased glyc-148 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Outside 
(medium) Inside 
(cytoplasmic) 
glucose rAlP 
glucose-6-phosphate t PGI 
fructose-6 phosphate ~ fructose 
.r-AlP , ATP ! 
~ 
E fructose l,6-diphosphate ~ CD E 
dihydroxyacetone glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate ca E 
I 
Q. phosphate 
NADH,-{ _ 
H+ r NAD+ 
L -glycerol-3-phosphate 
t 
glycerol +-- ? ~ glycerol 
Fig. 4-17. Enzymatic steps leading to glycerol formation. 
erol production will improve wine quality, 
leading to better mouth feel and enhanced 
complexity; glycerol at high levels tastes sweet 
and increases viscosity, but levels higher than 
the differences found among wines appears to 
be required (Noble and Bursick 1984; Yunome 
et al. 1981). Glycerol is commercially pro­
duced by utilization of this fermentation path­
way, but requires very high concentrations of 
S02 and very high pH (pH> 9) (Neuberg 
1946), conditions completely unacceptable to 
winemaking. 
The major factor directing the formation of 
other end products of sugar metabolism is the 
enzymatic machinery of the yeast cells at the 
time of inoculation into grape juice. Pyruvate 
carboxylase, which catalyzes the conversion of 
pyruvate to oxalacetic acid, is thought to com­
pete with pyruvate decarboxylase for substrate 
(Van Urk et al. 1988; Whiting 1976). Under 
conditions of limited pyruvate decarboxylase activity, pyruvate carboxylase has the kinetic 
advantage, directing carbon into the TCA cy­
cle (Van Urk et al. 1988). This comes about by 
a lowering of the glycolytic flux. The resulting 
low concentrations of pyruvate shunts pyruvate 
into the TCA cycle because of the relative 
affinities (Km's) of pyruvate decarboxylase 
(high Km) and pyruvate carboxylase (low Km) 
to pyruvate (Holzer 1961). The switching of 
pyruvate pathways, depending on the concen­
tration of pyruvate and relative Km's for the 
two enzymes, plays a major role in the Pasteur 
effect-the theoretical change over from fer­
mentation to respiration. 
When the TCA cycle is operational, a third 
enzyme for pyruvate metabolism, pyruvate de­
hydrogenase, catalyzes the conversion of pyru­
vate to acetyl CoA, which condenses with ox­
alacetic acid to produce citrate. This pathway 
is not active fermentatively. The organic acids 
produced during adaptation to glucose are those found as intermediates in the TCA cycle 
(Suomalainen and Keranen 1967; Van Urk et 
al. 1988). Succinic acid is found in levels of 0.5 
to 2 giL, pyruvate at 0 to 0.5 giL, citrate at 0 
to 0.5 giL, and a-keto-glutarate at 0 to 0.2 
giL (Radler 1992). Production of oxalacetic 
acid from pyruvate is energy-consuming; pyru­
vate carboxylase requires ATP. For each pyru­
vate entering the TCA cycle via pyruvate car­
boxylase, one ATP would be consumed. Net 
ATP would have to come from the limited 
respiration still occurring under these condi­
tions. Indeed, glycerol and succinate forma­
tion do seem to be stimulated by aeration 
(Ribereau-Gayon et al. 1956a, 1956b). How­
ever, grape juice fermentations rapidly be­
come anaerobic, and nitrogen gas flushed 
grape juice can be fermented starting with 
aerobically grown yeast. 
The main volatile acid in fermented bever­
ages is acetic acid. Because of the negative 
sensory attributes of high concentrations of 
this acid and its association with Acetobacter 
spoilage, its appreciable production during 
grape juice fermentation is highly undesirable. 
Acetic acid appears to be formed early in the 
fermentation (Whiting 1976), coming from 
acetic acid or lactic acid bacterial infections. 
However, Saccharomyces and other yeasts can 
produce acetic acid. It is usually produced at 
levels in the range 100 to 200 mglL by Saccha­
romyces and is influenced by yeast strain 
(Shimazu and Watanabe 1981), fermentation 
temperature and juice composition. The pro­
duction of acetic acid as a trace byproduct 
during fermentation is a poorly understood 
aspect of the wine fermentations. The legal 
limit for acetic acid in U.S. table wines is 1.2 
giL for white and 1.4 giL for red. Even 
though Saccharomyces can produce some acetic 
acid, it does not produce it at levels in excess 
of the legal limit. There are a number of 
explanations for its excessive formation rang­
ing from a nutrient deficiency or a nutrient 
imbalance in the juice to similar effects pro­
duced by the competition between coexisting 
yeasts and bacterial populations during con­
current malolactic fermentations. The aerobic Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 149 
conversion of ethanol to acetic acid such as 
that which occurs during a vinegar fermenta­
tion by Acetobacter is not expected due to ab­
sence of oxygen after the onset of fermenta­
tion. 
There have been many suggestions of possi­
ble enzyme reactions in yeast that could lead 
to acetic acid formation (lost and PiendI1975). 
These include: (1) Reversible formation from 
acetyl Co-A and acetyl adenylate through acetyl 
Co-A synthetase; (2) cleavage of citrate by cit­
rate lyase; (3) production from pyruvate by 
pyruvate dehydrogenase; (4) reversible forma­
tion from acetyl-phosphate by acetyl kinase; 
and (5) oxidation of acetaldehyde by aldehyde 
dehydrogenase. There do not appear to have 
been labeled studies of acetic acid pathways 
with wine yeast under juice conditions. 
One study of the contribution of various 
nutrients to the formation of acetic acid dur­
ing beer fermentations (lost and Piendl 1975) 
reported effects due to absorbed isoleucine, 
tryptophan, and arginine and lower fermenta­
tion temperatures. Earlier studies with various 
wine yeast reported a doubling of acetic acid 
production when pantothenate was absent 
from the medium and that its formation was 
inhibited by biotin, thiamin, or inositol 
(Ribereau-Gayon et al. 1954). 
In comparing anaerobic growth of two 
strains of Saccharomyces, Verduyn et al. (1990) 
found a striking strain difference in acetate 
production. The strain not excreting acetate 
was found to possess higher levels of acetyl-CoA 
synthetase activity, in agreement with earlier 
observations (Postma et al. 1989). Fatty acid 
biosynthesis utilizes acetyl-CoA as 2-carbon 
donor. Fatty acid production is stimulated by 
molecular oxygen. Cultures exposed to oxy­
gen, actively synthesizing fatty acids for growth, 
may produce acetic acid upon entry into 
anaerobic conditions as a mechanism for the 
regeneration of free Coenzyme A to be uti­
lized for other biosynthetic activities. Other, 
less well-characterized factors also seem to in­
fluence acetate production (Shimazu and 
Watanabe 1981). Investigation of the produc­
tion of acetic acid is complicated by the fact 150 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
that other organisms such as acetic acid and 
lactic acid bacteria and the yeast Brettanomyces 
may be present during must fermentation. 
These organisms are capable of producing this 
compound in high concentration under the 
appropriate conditions (Chapter 9). It is im­
portant to note that the presence of other 
microorganisms and the resulting competition 
with Saccharomyces may impact the metabolic 
activities of the yeast and thus affect the end 
products produced (Drysdale and Fleet 1989). 
The actual spectrum of end products of 
carbon metabolism found in a finished wine 
depends upon a variety of factors. The growth 
conditions of the inoculum dictate the initial 
enzymatic composition of the cell. Availability 
of and need to regenerate cofactors also af­
fects the cell's ability to conduct certain types 
of reactions. The presence of S02 also plays a 
role in directing early carbon flux. S02 can 
complex important cofactors such as thiamin 
required for decarboxylation reactions such as 
that catalyzed by pyruvate decarboxylase. It 
can also bind to acetaldehyde, preventing re­
generation of NAD + from NADH through the 
reduction of acetaldehyde to ethanol. The 
presence of other microorganisms complicates 
the situation in that they also will be contribut­
ing end products of their own and may impact 
Saccharomyces metabolic activities. 
2. Higher (Fuse!) Alcohols 
During all yeast fermentations, small amounts 
of higher alcohols, the higher molecular-weight 
analogs of ethanol, with higher boiling points, 
are formed, which include, in order of the 
amounts produced: 3-methyl butanol {isoamyl 
alcohol}, 2-methyl butanol (active amyl alco­
hol), 2-methyl propanol {isobutyl alcohol}, and 
I-propanol (n-propyl alcohol) (Figure 4-18). 
The biochemical pathways for the formation 
of these alcohols, except for the very last steps, 
are identical with those for the formation of 
the similarly structured amino acids, leucine, 
isoleucine, valine, and threonine, respectively. 
The higher alcohols are formed either anabol­
ically from sugars, utilizing these pathways, or as the transamination products of these amino 
acids. The formation of the higher alcohols 
from the respective amino acids is discussed 
further below, in the section on nitrogen 
metabolism (Section 1.5). 
The physical properties of the higher alco­
hols and their metabolism have been reviewed 
by Webb and Ingraham (1963). They pointed 
out that fusel oil formation seems to be a 
common characteristic of all yeasts, including 
nonfermenting yeasts such as some species of 
Pichia, but the amounts formed are, in fact, 
genus-, species- and strain-dependent. Webb 
and Ingraham (1963) point out that the com­
ponents of fusel oil are not necessarily limited 
to the four alcohols mentioned above, but 
more than 100 other components have also 
been identified in the fraction. Many of the 
supernumerary compounds are the ethyl, 
isoamyl, and active amyl esters of various or­
ganic acids. Even though the higher alcohols 
are constituents of these volatile esters, some 
of which are very highly and pleasantly aro­
matic, there seems to be no direct quantifica­
tion between the amounts of the alcohol 
formed and the corresponding ester. One of 
the alcohols, phenethyl alcohol, is not gener­
ally classified in with the higher alcohols, but 
perhaps ought to be. It is found in very low 
concentrations, but it is highly aromatic; it is 
an important component in the fragrance of 
roses. Other discussions of higher alcohol for­
mation by yeasts are given by Watson (1976), 
Ingledew (1993) and Hammond (1993). The 
formation of higher alcohols from their analo­
gous amino acids is given in Section 1.5. 
The higher alcohols themselves have little 
impact on the sensory properties of wine, but 
they can be of major importance in wine distil­
lates, in which they are much more concen­
trated. Indeed, their early recognition, if not 
their discovery, came from the immiscible layer 
noticed in distillation products of yeast fer­
mentations whenever most of the ethanol had 
been removed. This oily layer has a bad, fousel 
(foul) smell, and was early on named fusel oil 
(Webb and Ingraham 1963). Subsequently, the 
fusel fraction was found to be made up mainly .... 
Yt .... TCA 
cycle 
1 
aspartate 
t 
homosenne glycolysis 
1 
COOH 
I 
C=O TT a-acetolactate I I 
CH3 : 
pyruvate : 
I 
I t TPP-C 2** cp U threonine : ~_NH3 * COOH : a-aceto-
I hydroxybutyrate 
C=O 
I 
n-propan- +C02 
aldehyde t (NAD+) 
C~OH 
I 
C~ 
I 
CH3 CH2 
I 
CH3 
/ a-keto­
butyrate t ±NH3* 
higher alcohols 
~ I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I o 
Fig. 4-18. Pathway for formation of higher alcohols from glucose. /3-carboxy- (NADP+l 
/3-hydroxy- ...., 
acetyl (isocaproate a-carboxy­
/3-hydroxy­
isocaproate CoA +CoA 
~~. c~..v~. 
COOH 
I a,/3-
dihydroxy 
isovalerate 1 
COOH 
I 
a,/3-
dihydroxy 
/3-methyl 
valerate I I 
I 
I 
I I 
I o C=O 
I 
CH , , 
H3C C~ 
a-keto­
isovalerate 
COOH 
I 
C=O 
I 
,.CH 
~ 'C~ 
I 
C~ 
a-keto-/3-methyl • ~ isobutyraldehyde 
+C0 2 
t 
C~H 
I ,Ctl 
H3C CH3 
±NH3: ~~~~ 
valerate , 
/3-methyl 
butyraldehyde 
-, 
* transamination with glutamate I 
a-ketoglutarate as amine donor I 
acceptor 
** active acetaldehyde 
0,0,0, indicate identical 
enzymes for the two pathways +c~ t (NAD+) 
C~H 
I 
,.CH 
H:!C 'c~ 
I 
CH3 
I active amyl alcohol I C=O 
I 
C~ 
I 
CH 
H3C" "'CH3 
a-keto­
isocaproate 
t 
C~+ 
isovaleraldehyde 
(NAD+) t 
CH20H 
I 
C~ 
I ,.Ctl 
H3C CH3 152 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
of the four components already mentioned. 
The concentrations of the total higher alco­
hols in 120 California white wines has been 
found to range from 162 to 266 mg/L and 
from 140 to 417 mg/L in 130 reds wines 
(Guymon and Heitz 1952). Similar ranges have 
been reported in 172 Italian wines by 
Usseglio-Tomasset (1975). The level of isoamyl 
alcohol, the major component, has been re­
ported to be in the range 90 to 292 mg/L 
(Usseglio-Tomasset 1975). 
Because it is the major component, isoamyl 
alcohol is the predominant odorous compo­
nent of fusel oil. The impression, especially 
with dessert wines, is that while high fusel 
content is not desired, too low is associated 
with less full, thin, or simple wines. Reed and 
Nagodawithana (1991) have compiled data 
from several reports from more than two 
decades ago, giving a wide scatter of results 
but showing that the threshold values for 
isobutyl alcohol were always somewhat higher 
than for isoamyl alcohol. In one of these re­
ports, Rankine (1967) showed that the sensory 
thresholds were generally higher than the 
amounts normally found in wine. Active amyl 
alcohol was not tested because of the difficulty 
in obtaining sufficient quantities in pure form 
for sensory analysis. Active amyl alcohol is so 
named because of its optical activity; that is, it 
causes the rotation of the plane of polarized 
light, as measured by polarimetry (Dubos 
1988). Active amyl and isoamyl alcohols are 
structurally similar and thus are difficult to 
separate. It is not surprising to enologists to 
learn that Pasteur was the first to discover the 
optical activity of active amyl alcohol, after 
separation of it from isoamyl alcohol by frac­
tional crystallization of the barium salts of the 
sulfuric acid esters (Pasteur 1855). Enologists 
are also quick to proclaim that this discovery 
of optical activity in yeast fermentation distil­
lates-and not found in unfermented material 
-led Pasteur to the ingenious conclusion that 
the fermentation was a result of a biological 
process (Dubos 1988), and laid the foundation 
for the science of microbiology-and hope­
fully for better control over the vinification processes. Coincidentally, Pasteur's separation 
of optical isomers of tartaric acid isolated from 
grapes and wine led to stereochemistry in or­
ganic chemistry. 
As we have said, the higher alcohols (in­
eluding phenethyl alcohol, B-hydroxy 
phenethyl alcohol, and tyrosol) can be byprod­
ucts of amino acid catabolism. However, the 
higher alcohols are also formed from sugars, 
utilizing part of the enzymatic pathways 
needed for formation of the corresponding 
amino acids, as shown in Figure 4-18. This 
formation is found in the absence of added 
amino acids (Thoukis 1958; Ingraham and 
Guymon 1960). The last two steps of the path­
way, the decarboxylation of the a-keto acid 
and the reduction of the subsequent aldehyde 
by alcohol dehydrogenase, with NADH as the 
electron donor, apparently involves the same 
enzymes as those needed for conversion of 
pyruvate (an a-keto acid) to ethyl alcohol 
(SentheShanmuganathan 1960a, 1960b; Webb 
and Ingraham 1963; Kunkee et al. 1966 and 
1972; Singh and Kunkee 1977). Other workers 
(Dickinson and Dawes 1992) have found a 
branched-chain dehydrogenase system in Sac­
charomyces mitochondria, similar to that found 
in mammalian cells, by which the branched­
chain a-keto acids are oxidatively decarboxyl­
ated to give a CoA derivative, in much the 
same way that pyruvic acid is respired via the 
TCA cycle. While this pathway might be real, 
its importance is in question, especially under 
vinification conditions where it would be 
restrained by the presence of high con­
centrations of glucose and by the anaerobic 
conditions. 
The winemaker has some possibilities for 
control over the formation of higher alcohols. 
Foremost in importance is the content of the 
nitrogenous components. This is discussed in 
detail in the next section (Section H.2), but 
suffice it to say here that deficiencies in am­
monia or free amino nitrogen sets the yeast 
cell in need to scavenge nitrogen from avail­
able amino acids, leaving the transaminated 
moiety, a higher alcohol, behind; contrariwise, 
excess nitrogenous components brings about a decrease in formation of fusel alcohols. The 
yeast employed is also of importance. Our 
experience has been the same as that given by 
Guymon et al. (1961), where a yeast such as 
Hansenula anomala, which may carry out only a 
limited fermentation of grape juice, produces 
high concentrations of fusel alcohols, espe­
cially where aerated; whereas strains of 
Schizosaccharomyces pombe, which happen to be 
much better fermenters, produce very low 
amounts. What is more to the point for the 
winemaker is the effect of wine yeast strain 
used for the vinification. We have confirmed 
the early observations (Rankine 1967) that the 
concentration of higher alcohols formed, un­
der standardized conditions, is dependent 
upon yeast strain used. Claims of this sort are 
sometimes made for various yeast strains by 
their commercial producers. While these 
claims can be documented, the variations are 
generally so small that the differences are es­
sentially sensorially undetectable. More impor­
tantly might be the effects of aeration, temper­
ature and pH, the increase of each of these 
tending to increase the formation of higher 
alcohols (Webb and Ingraham 1963; Rankine 
1967). However, it is an unlikely winemaking 
situation where the fermentation would be 
manipulated by any of these possibilities, since 
the amounts of higher alcohol in table wine 
are either so low as to be unnoticed, or if high 
enough to be noticed, would not be desired. 
The situation for beverage brandy, the distilla­
tion product of wine, where the volatile flavor 
compounds are concentrated, may be differ­
ent. Where a fine and long-aged product is to 
be made, the presence of increased amounts 
of congeners, including some of the higher 
alcohols, can be desirable. However, where a 
fresher and less expensive product is being 
made, fermentation of distilling material with 
minimal fusel oil is preferred. For the latter 
type of vinification, a new wine yeast strain was 
especially constructed which produced very 
low concentrations of isoamyl alcohol (Rous et 
al. 1983). The use of this strain for distilled 
beverage production has met with some suc­
cess (Kunkee and Bisson 1993). This is the first Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 153 
and one of the few practical examples of the 
use of molecular genetics and biotechnology 
for improvement of a wine yeast strain, or 
indeed the manipulation of any yeast strain for 
a commercial fermentation. 
I. NITROGEN METABOLISM DURING 
FERMENTATION 
The major nitrogen species in the average 
grape juice are: proline, arginine, alanine, glu­
tamate, glutamine, serine, and threonine. Am­
monium ion levels may also be high, depend­
ing upon the variety and time of harvest. Of 
the amino acids, proline and arginine are the 
major species. Proline accumulation at high 
levels appears to be associated with grapevine 
stress, particularly low moisture. Another ni­
trogen compound, y-aminobutyrate, may also 
be present in high concentration in grape 
juice. Some studies indicate that this com­
pound may form in the fruit postharvest and 
prior to processing of the grapes. 
Nitrogen-containing compounds in grape 
must might meet one of three fates: (1) Uti­
lized as that compound directly in biosynthe­
sis; (2) converted to a related compound and 
utilized in biosynthesis; or (3) degraded releas­
ing nitrogen either as free ammonium ion or 
as bound nitrogen via a transamination reac­
tion. In case 3, the carbon skeleton of the 
nitrogen-containing compound would be a 
waste product. 
1. Uptake and Transport 
In a typical grape juice fermentation, nitro­
gen-containing compounds present in low 
concentration are taken up very quickly, within 
the first two Brix drop or prior to the start of 
growth. Biosynthetic pools of amino acids are 
filled first, before degradation of compounds 
as nitrogen sources occurs. Metabolizable ni­
trogen compounds present in excess do not 
disappear as quickly from the medium. How­
ever, they are also taken up at this time. Once 
pools have been filled and growth com-154 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
mences, nitrogen compounds will be taken up 
and degraded in a specific order of prefer­
ence. The timing of utilization of a nitrogen 
compound is dependent upon two factors, the 
need for that compound directly in biosynthe­
sis with respect to its starting concentration 
and the preference for that compound as a 
nitrogen source once cellular pools have been 
filled. Thus, one cannot directly equate time 
of disappearance of a compound with prefer­
ence as a nitrogen source unless it is clear that 
the compound is present in excess. 
An overall scheme of nitrogen metabolism 
is given in Figure 4-19. Ammonium ion and 
glutamate are generally the two most pre­
ferred nitrogen sources as these two com­
pounds are the species utilized directly for 
biosynthesis. Glutamine, since it can generate 
ammonium ion and glutamate is also a pre­
ferred nitrogen source. In general, most yeast 
species will deplete the medium of these three 
nitrogen compounds first, before attacking 
other sources of nitrogen. The next group of 
nitrogen compounds in terms of preference 
includes alanine, serine, threonine, aspartate, 
asparagine, urea, and arginine. Proline is a 
relatively good source of nitrogen only under 
aerobic conditions as the first enzymatic step 
in the catabolic pathway catalyzed by proline oxidase requires molecular oxygen and is con­
fined to the mitochondria. Glycine, lysine, his­
tidine, and the pyrimidines, thymine and 
thymidine, cannot be utilized by most strains 
of Saccharomyces as sources of nitrogen, but 
they can be readily utilized directly as biosyn­
the tic precursors. Metabolism of the aromatic 
amino acids is complex, with some reactions 
requiring oxygen or cofactors that may be 
limiting during fermentation. 
The order of preference of utilization of 
nitrogen-containing compounds may change, 
depending upon environmental, physiological, 
and strain-specific factors. Generally speaking, 
a preferred yeast nitrogen source is one that is 
most readily converted into a biosynthetically 
useful nitrogen compound, ammonia or gluta­
mate, or one that requires the least in terms of 
energy input or cofactors which may be in 
limiting supply for mobilization of the nitro­
gen moiety. Furthermore, from the wine­
maker's perspective, it should not, when in 
excess, lead to undesirable residues. Table 4-7 
displays how the various nitrogen-containing 
compounds generate ammonium ion or gluta­
mate, and shows the organic acids generated 
from the carbon skeletons of the nitrogen 
compounds following deamination (see also 
Table 4-11). 
allophanate 
serine 
threonine 
tyrosine 
phenylalanine 
purines -~~~ NH; 000II0(:--------asparagine 
tryptophan 
pyrimidines 
)( UNa ) 
~I·r i 
purines (arginine) 1l 
glutamate 
t transaminase 
( prOline) 
tm~IM) 
Fig. 4-19. Products of amino acid degradation. a-ketoglutarate 
aspartate 
isoleucine 
leucine 
valine 
alanine 
l3-alanine } polyamines 
GABA Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 155 
Table 4-7. Anaerobic amino acid metabolism in Saccharomyces. 
Amino acid 
Aliphatic amino acids 
Alanine 
Glycine 
Valine 
Leucine 
Isoleucine 
Hydroxyamino acids 
Serine 
Threonine 
Acidic amino acids and 
Amines 
Aspartate 
Asparagine 
Glutamate 
Glutamine Metabolism 
transamination 
not metabolizable as N 
source 
transamination 
subsequent metabolism 
transamination 
subsequent metabolism 
transamination 
subsequen t metabolism 
deamination 
deamination 
transamination 
deamination 
subsequent metabolism 
deamination 
deamination 
subsequent metabolism End products 
N-compound C-compound 
glutamate 
glutamate 
glutamate 
glutamate 
glutamate 
NH+ + aspartate 
glutamate 
NH! 
NH!, glutamate 
NH! pyruvate 
isobutyryl SCoA 
succinyl SCoA 
isovaleryl SCoA 
acetyl SCoA 
acetoacetyl SCoA 
methylbutryl SCoA 
acetyl SCoA 
succinyl SCoA 
pyruvate 
propionyl SCoA 
oxalacetic acid 
oxalacetic acid 
a-ketoglutarate 
a-ketoglutarate 
Basic amino acids 
Lysine 
Histidine 
Arginine not metabolizable as N source 
not metabolizable as N source 
anaerobic products 2NH! 
proline 
glutamate 
Aromatic amino acids 
Tryptophan 
Phenylalanine 
Tyrosine 
Sulfur-containing amino 
Acids 
Cysteine 
Methionine 
Imino amino acid 
Proline metabolism 
requires 02 
deamination 
subsequent metabolism 
requires 02 
deamination 
subsequent metabolism 
requires 02 
Not metabolizable as N 
source 
transamination 
subsequent metabolism 
metabolism requires 02 
A key step for the control of utilization of 
any metabolite is transport of the compound 
into the cell. There are basically three types of 
cellular transport of metabolites: simple diffu­
sion, facilitated diffusion, and active transport glutamate phenylpyruvate 
hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate 
a-ketobutyric acid 
succinyl SCoA 
(Figure 4-20). In simple diffusion, the com­
pound must be able to pass through the plasma 
membrane lipid bilayer unassisted by any pro­
tein component. Facilitated diffusion is pro­
tein-mediated, but does not require the input 156 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
of an energy source. Such transport systems 
can serve to equilibrate internal and external 
concentrations of substrate, but are not con­
centrative, meaning that a substrate cannot be 
accumulated inside of the cell against its con­
centration gradient via facilitated diffusion. 
Facilitated diffusion systems can function to 
excrete metabolites from the cell if the inter­
nal concentration becomes high relative to 
that outside of the cell. Active transport sys­
tems are protein-dependent and energy-re­
quiring and can therefore be utilized to con­
centrate a compound against its concentration 
gradient. Most nitrogen-containing com­
pounds are transported via active mechanisms 
since, in general, the cellular concentrations 
of each of these components will need to be 
higher than outside of the cell. An interesting 
exception is the urea-facilitated diffusion car­
rier (Cooper 1982b; Cooper and Sumrada 
1975). Numerous amino acid transport systems 
have been described in Saccharomyces, and 
many remain to be elucidated (Horak 1986). 
Sugars are often transported via facilitated diffusion because they are rapidly metabolized 
once inside of the cell. As a consequence, 
there is always, in commercial fermentations, a 
high concentration of the substrate externally 
when compared to internal concentration. 
These compounds, therefore, are always being 
transported along a concentration gradient 
which is energetically favorable. 
Amino acid active transport in yeast is typi­
cally coupled to the movement of ions (Co­
oper 1982b). Several transport systems have 
been described, some with very general sub­
strate specificities and some transporting only 
a single or highly related cluster of amino 
acids (Cooper 1982b; Horak 1986). Many yeast 
amino acid transport systems are proton sym­
ports, coupling uptake of a substrate molecule 
to that of a hydrogen ion, an excellent 
metabolic strategy considering that the dif­
ference in grape juice pH relative to that of 
the yeast cytoplasm is typically at least three 
pH units. In this way a component running 
along a strong gradient (pH) is energetically 
linked to uptake of one that is running against 
Simple 
diffusion 
Facilitated 
diffusion S S 
Fig. 4-20. Mechanisms of solute transf Active 
Transport 
Outs ide 
(medium) S 
Inside 
(cytop lasmic) ATP its gradient, such as an amino acid (Figure 
4-21). The protons that enter the cell must be 
excreted to prevent acidification of the cyto­
plasm and cell death. Protons are excreted via 
the plasma membrane ATPase, a hydrogen 
ion pump, which uses energy from the hydrol­
ysis of one ATP molecule for each hydrogen 
ion pumped out of the cell (Serrano 1978), 
thus explaining the energy requirement for 
the active transport process (Figure 4-20). The 
cell's ability to excrete protons is an important 
regulatory factor for amino acid uptake (Roon 
et al. 1975, 1977a, 1977b). Mutations of plasma 
membrane ATPase activity decrease perme­
ability of amino acids and ammonium ion 
(McCusker et al. 1987; Vallejo and Serrano 
1989), and render the cells sensitive to inhibi­
tion of growth at low pH. Thus, in the pres­
ence of acids which will enter the cell in the 
undissociated form, a proton is generated once 
the acids in the cytoplasm (McCusker et al. 
1987; Vallejo and Serrano 1989). Amino acid 
transport is strongly inhibited by ethanol 
Outside 
(medium) 
amino __ ....::=t' 
acid ov c: 
!i;I 
.0 
E ov 
~ 
<tI 
E 
'" <tI 
0:: Inside 
(cytoplasmic) 
ATP 
amino 
""----....,.. acid 
-A1>N'J'oIV'f'"7"" H + (passive proton 
influx) 
Fig. 4-21. Amino acid transport. Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 157 
(Ferreras et al. 1989; Leao and van Uden 
1984a). Ethanol increases the rate of passive 
proton influx into the yeast cells, making the 
cells leakier to hydrogen ions from the 
medium (Leao and van Uden 1984b; 
Cartwright et al. 1986) (Figure 4-22), which is 
at least one of the mechanisms of ethanol's 
toxicity to yeast (p. 170). The cell can elimi­
nate the excess hydrogen ions via the ATPase, 
but may need to shut down hydrogen ion-cou­
pled transporters to avoid overloading the ca­
pacity of the ATPase to remove excess cyto­
plasmic protons. These observations lead to a 
physiological model that is highly consistent 
with the pattern of uptake of amino acids that 
is observed during grape juice fermentation 
(Monk et al. 1986; Monteiro and Bisson 1991a). 
As shown in Table 4-8, most amino acids are 
consumed early in the fermentation prior to 
the appearance of significant amounts of 
ethanol in the medium. This, in turn, explains 
why much of the ethanol is secreted after 
growth ceases. Adenine is also consumed at 
this time (Monteiro and Bisson 1992c). The 
yeast is able to store amino acids in the vac­
uole, and thus can keep cytoplasmic pools of 
amino acids low for metabolic regulatory pur­
poses while total cellular levels are in great 
excess over what is needed to produce a new 
cell (Cooper 1982a; Kitamoto et al. 1988; Mes­
senguy 1987). The yeast strategy that appears 
to have evolved during grape juice fermenta­
tion is to transport the amino acids while 
energy is available, but ethanol is low, store 
the amino acids in the vacuole to use at leisure 
when needed for biosynthesis. As more and 
more energy must be consumed to deal with 
the increase in hydrogen ions due to in­
creased passive flux into the cells as a conse­
quence of ethanol production, the nitrogen 
has long since been depleted from the medium 
and the proton-coupled transport systems are 
not necessary. This strategy explains why late 
additions of nitrogen to correct a nitrogen 
deficiency of a juice may have little to no 
impact on yeast metabolism simply because 
the cells are unable to transport the added 
compounds. Some amino acid transporters 158 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fmnentation 
Outside 
(medium) 
"0 
C 
('II 
or: -UJ 
or: tn i: 
amino 
acid 
Fig. 4-22. cD 
~ 
D 
E 
cD 
~ 
'" E 
'" '" a:: Inside 
(cytoplasm ic) 
Effect of ethanol on passive proton flux. may function as potassium symporters follow­
ing a similar logic if potassium ions have a 
high external as compared to internal cellular 
concentration (Horak 1986). 
Amino acid transport shows the phe­
nomenon of transinhibition in which amino 
acids that do not appear to share the same 
transporter essentially compete with each other 
for uptake (Cooper 1982b). This competition 
is thought to reflect a limitation of some com­
mon component, perhaps the ability to ex­
trude the protons (Roon et al. 1977), but may 
also serve to guarantee that a mixture of amino 
acids will be taken up if such a mixture is 
present in the medium. 
The major sugars in grape juice are glucose 
and fructose which are transported via faciIi­
tated diffusion, not requiring any energy in­
put. In contrast, the disaccharide maltose is 
transported via a proton symport system (Fig­
ure 4-23). Amino acid utilization is influenced 
by the available sugar in beer or other starch­
hydrolysate fermentations, because maltose 
Table 4-8. Amino acid levels (JLM) during fennentation of Sauvignon blanc juice' by Montrachet. 
Brix fermented 
Amino 
Acid 0 0.2 0.8 2.2 3.4 11.7 16.2 17.8 18.2d 
ASP 426.2 249.9 139.0 Ob 0 0 0 0 16.9 
THR 629.8 349.0 265.8 9.8 0 0 0 0 0 
SER 541.5 334.0 383.4 15.3 0 0 0 0 0 
GLU 700.6 505.0 323.6 0 0 0 0 0 11.3 
GLN 146.1 149.6 22.4 0 0 0 0 10.1 
GLY 0 43.1 60.8 74.0 0 0 0 0 0 
ALA 1290.9 820.1 1089.1 314.2 0 0 0 0 13.4 
VAL 184.7 119.8 158.7 50.8 0 0 14.8 0 0 
ILE 255.9 60.4 68.3 0 9.5 0 12.3 0 11.8 
LEU 438.3 107.2 82.1 0 12.5 0 0 0 11.3 
TYR 968.8 406.5 338.3 22.4 0 0 122.3 0 8.0 
PHE 294.3 336.4 218.0 0 0 0 63.5 0 71.4 
GABA 668.1 519.1 572.4 644.3 381.3 232.0 156.0 375.9 234.3 
NH3 934.0 871.2 524.5 73.0 0 0 121.9 0 14.9 
HIS 216.8 31.1 115.3 24.8 0 0 0 0 0 
LYS 259.8 0 124.2 0 0 0 37.1 0 0 
ARG 1473.3 932.1 1091.0 1370.1 17.4 0 44.1 0 25.1 
aJuice did not contain any detectable methionine, cysteine, asparagine, or citrulline. 
bO ~ not detected, less than 1-10 /Lmole/L, depending upon the amino acid and sample dilution. 
c -~ peak not well resolved, concentration could not be accurately determined. 
dThe dry sample, 18.2 Brix fermented was taken nine days after inoculation. Outside 
(medium) Inside 
(cytoplasmic) 
Fig. 4-23. Mechanisms of sugar transport. 
also is competing for the capacity to extrude 
protons (Egbosimba and Slaughter 1987; Eg­
bosimba et al. 1988) while glucose (and fruc­
tose) do not compete for that capacity. 
2. Utilization Preferences 
The extensive work of Jones and Pierce (1964) 
and Pierce (1982) on the consumption of 
amino acids in wort revealed that these com­
pounds could be broken down into four 
classes, based upon the time of disappearance 
from the medium. Class A amino acids were 
consumed first. Class B amino acids started to 
be consumed prior to depletion of the class A 
compounds. Class C amino acids were not 
taken up until the medium was depleted of 
the class A compounds. Class D amino acids 
did not appear to be consumed under the 
growth conditions used. The classes are pre­
sented in Table 4-9. Ammonium ion, generally 
a preferred yeast nitrogen source, is in class C, Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 159 
Table 4-9. Classification of amino acids by time of 
consumption from wort. 
Class A Class B Class C Class 0 
Aspartate Histidine Alanine Proline 
Asparagine Isoleucine Ammonium 
Arginine Leucine Glycine 
Glutamate Methionine Phenylalanine 
Glutamine Valine Tryptophan 
Lysine Tyrosine 
Serine 
Threonine 
Ammonium ion is the species that is trans­
ported (Dubois and Grenson 1979; Roon et al. 
1975a) (Figure 4-24), which decreases the 
plasma membrane potential, necessitating the 
extrusion of protons. In this case the cell ob­
tains a single nitrogen for a single proton, but 
each disaccharide molecule is also bringing in 
a proton. Metabolizable nitrogen sources such 
as arginine which bring in four nitrogen atoms 
per proton would be preferable to take up 
Outs ide 
(medium) 
+ 
NH4 CII c: 
CIII .. .c E 
CII E 
as E 
ctI as ii Inside 
(cytop lasmic ) 
H+ 
H+ 
NH: ~ 
NH3 
not consumed early as would be predicted. Fig. 4-24. Ammonium ion uptake. 160 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
under these conditions, which is exactly what 
is seen in wort. In grape juice, however, am­
monia is readily utilized as a nitrogen source, 
being a preferred nitrogen source in this envi­
ronment. Since glucose and fructose, the two 
main sugars of grape juice, are transported via 
facilitated diffusion (Cirillo 1968; Kotyk 1967), 
not involving movement of ions, there is no 
interference between nitrogen and carbon up­
take systems due to the limitations of the hy­
drogen ion pumping ATPase. The overall pat­
tern of utilization of amino acids in grape 
juice fermentation is given in Table 4-10. Early 
in the fermentation, at times prior to the onset 
of growth phase, all amino acids appear to be 
transportable, although the relative fraction 
consumed of the major amino acid species is 
small at this time. As the amino acids origi­
nally present in low concentration are con­
sumed, those present in excess are then taken 
up in a pattern consistent with work on labo­
ratory strains concerning yeast preference for 
amino acids as nitrogen sources (Cooper 
1982a). Proline does not appear to be taken 
up from grape juice significantly under anaer-
Table 4-10. Pattern of consumption of amino acids 
from grape juice. 
Phase I 
Alanine 
Ammonium 
Arginine 
Asparagine 
Aspartate 
Cysteine 
Glutamate 
Glutamine 
Glycine 
Histidine 
Isoleucine 
Leucine 
Lysine 
Methionine 
Phenylalanine 
Serine 
Threonine 
Tryptophan 
Tyrosine 
Valine 
IGABA = y-Aminobutyrate Phase II 
Ammonium 
Alanine 
Arginine 
GABAI Phase III 
Proline obic fermentative conditions. The proline 
content of wine is not less than must and may, 
in fact, be higher under some conditions. 
The rate of uptake of a compound depends 
upon the activity and number of permeases in 
the membrane for that compound. Factors 
other than permease activity seem to become 
important later in fermentation (Cartwright et 
ai. 1986), as cells removed from fermenting 
media and assayed for amino acid uptake dis­
play higher rates of uptake in the assay than is 
observed in the medium itself. The most likely 
cause of the decreased rate of uptake is 
ethanol, and the dissipation of the proton 
motive force as previously suggested. 
Yeasts contain a general amino acid perme­
ase, which serves to transport several amino 
acids (Garrett 1989; Grenson et ai. 1966; Ho­
rak 1986). This transport system is expressed 
under conditions of nitrogen limitation 
(Woodward and Cirillo 1977), and would be 
predicted to be functional during grape juice 
fermentation. Several specific anabolic amino 
acid permeases also exist with very high affin­
ity that function in the uptake of minor amino 
acids when such amino active transport sys­
tems also exist for the nucleoside bases. Ade­
nine, guanine, hypoxanthine, and cytosine 
share an active, proton symport permease of 
high substrate affinity (Parlebas and Chevallier 
1977; Reichert and Foret 1977). Uracil is 
transported via two different permeases, of 
differing affinities (Grenson 1969). There is 
also a specific uridine permease (Grenson 
1969; Parle bas and Chevallier 1977). Thymine 
and thymidine are not taken up by Saccha­
romyces (Bisson and Thorner 1982; Brendel et 
aI., 1975). In wild-type strains, transport of 
phosphorylated nucleotides is not observed; 
however, tup mutations confer permeability to 
dTMP, which appears to be mediated by a 
phosphate, not a nitrogen-compound perme­
ase (Bisson and Thorner 1982). 
3. Intracellular Pools 
In contrast to bacteria, Saccharomyces can accu­
mulate large intracellular pools of amino acids. Amino acid concentrations in the yeast cell 
range from 10-4 M for tryptophan to 10-2 M 
for glutamate (Messenguy 1987). The basic 
and neutral amino acids are largely found in 
the vacuole while the acidic amino acids, as­
partate and glutamate, are found in the cyto­
plasm. This subcellular compartmentalization 
serves to separate the enzymes of metabolism 
from their substrates, thus allowing better co­
ordination of amino acid metabolism. Vacuo­
lar sequestration allows the cells to rapidly 
consume all available nitrogen, store the nitro­
gen in the vacuole, then utilize compounds as 
they are needed by regulating the release of 
amino acids from the vacuole to the cyto­
plasm. This metabolic strategy is in contrast to 
that of many microorganisms which regulate 
cellular pool levels by regulating net uptake 
into the cell. The yeast strategy appears to be a 
sound one considering their environment, the 
need to guard against excessive proton influx 
as ethanol accumulates in the medium, and 
the competitive edge obtained by the rapid 
depletion of available nitrogen compounds 
from the medium against other organisms un­
able to accumulate and store amino acids in 
this manner. As would be predicted, the com­
position of the amino acid pool in yeast is 
dictated by the available nitrogen source or 
sources (Watson 1976). In general, the avail­
able amino acids and closely related deriva­
tives are the ones seen to accumulate inside of 
the yeast cell (Watson 1976). 
4. Utilization Pathways 
There have been many recent studies on the 
pattern of nitrogen compound utilization dur­
ing grape juice fermentation (Monteiro and 
Bisson 1991a, 1991b, 1992a, 1992b, 1992c; Ji­
ranek et al. 1991). Many factors complicate the 
interpretation of these results. Both the total 
amount of nitrogen and the kinds of 
nitrogen-containing compounds are impor­
tant. A given amino acid may display different 
patterns of utilization depending upon its con­
centration relative to cellular needs for biosyn-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 161 
thesis and to total nitrogen availability. If pre­
sent at a concentration near or below the level 
needed for biosynthesis, the amino acid species 
will be depleted from the medium rapidly. If 
present in excess of the concentration needed 
for biosynthesis, the amino acid species may 
persist in the medium. 
Another important factor in these types of 
studies is the choice of medium to use for the 
investigation. A defined or synthetic juice 
medium allows the experimenter complete 
control over the composition. Definitive ex­
periments can be undertaken, and general 
rules or principles can be determined. How­
ever, to be certain these rules or principles 
accurately reflect the situation in grape juice, 
the work should be repeated using grape juice 
itself. Grape juice is not a defined medium, 
containing unknown substances and unknown 
concentrations of known substances. If the 
pattern observed in juice-like medium is re­
peatable in grape juice, then the unknowns do 
not affect the phenomenon under investiga­
tion. If dissimilar findings are obtained, then it 
becomes necessary to analyze other compo­
nents not previously thought to play an impor­
tant role. The ultimate goal of such studies is 
to accurately reproduce the grape juice phe­
nomenon in a synthetic, defined medium. 
Strain differences may also playa very im­
portant role. In comparison of the effect of 
nitrogen content of grape juice on fermenta­
tion parameters distinct strain differences were 
observed (Monteiro and Bisson 1991a). Fer­
mentation rate in Montrachet was more 
strongly correlated with nitrogen content than 
in the Prise de Mousse strain. It would be 
unwise to generalize an observation made on a 
single yeast strain to all strains. Direct compar­
ison of different strains in different juices is 
the worst possible scenario. Different strains 
must be compared in the same medium. 
Nitrogen can be incorporated into a recep­
tor molecule via direct amination using am­
monia or via a transamination reaction in 
which a second nitrogen-containing com­
pound serves as the nitrogen donor. Gluta-162 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
mate serves most often as nitrogen donor in 
biosynthetic transamination reactions. Thus, 
the cell needs to maintain a proper balance of 
these two nitrogen compounds which are cen­
tral to the coordinated biosynthesis of all bio­
logically active nitrogen-containing compo­
nents (Figure 4-19). Two enzymatic reactions 
serve to equilibrate levels of these compounds 
and to couple nitrogen and carbon 
metabolism. NAD+-dependent glutamate de­
hydrogenase and NADP+-dependent gluta­
mate dehydrogenase (GDH) are catabolic and 
anabolic reactions, respectively (Cooper 1982a; 
Middlehoven et al. 1978). In general, either 
NAD+- or NADP+-dependent glutamate dehy­
drogenase is expressed depending upon the 
available nitrogen source, rarely are they ex­
pressed equally (Cooper 1982a). Maximal lev­
els of NADP+-GDH are observed when ammo­
nium ion is the sole nitrogen source in the 
medium or is the major nitrogen form pro­
duced intracellularly from the degradation of 
the available nitrogen sources (Cooper 1982a). 
This enzyme thus performs primarily an an­
abolic role in the synthesis of glutamate from 
ammonium ion and a-ketoglutarate. In con­
trast, the maximal levels of NAD+-GDH are 
observed when glutamate, aspartate, or ala­
nine are provided as sole nitrogen source, 
compounds which generate high glutamate 
levels. Thus, this enzyme is involved in the 
catabolism of glutamate to yield ammonium 
ion for biosynthesis. Loss of NAD+-dependent 
glutamate dehydrogenase necessitates provi­
sion of ammonia or a nitrogen source generat­
ing ammonia. Similarly, loss of NADP+-depen­
dent glutamate dehydrogenase requires provi­
sion of glutamate or a nitrogen source gener­
ating glutamate (Middlehoven et al. 1978). 
Amino acids lysine, histidine, cysteine (cystine), 
and glycine are good nitrogen sources for 
many yeasts, however, none of these com­
pounds is utilized efficiently by Saccharomyces 
as a nitrogen source (Cooper 1982a; Large 
1986). In fact, there are many nitrogen-con­
taining compounds which serve as good nitro­
gen sources for many other yeasts which are 
not catabolized by Saccharomyces (Large 1986). a. Arginine and Proline Metabolism 
Arginine and proline represent the major 
amino acids found in grape juice. The proline 
metabolic pathway is given in Figure 4-25. 
Molecular oxygen is required as hydrogen ac­
ceptor for the first step in proline degrada­
tion, proline oxidase, which occurs in the mi­
tochondrion (Tomenchok and Brandriss 
1987). Under anaerobic fermentation condi­
tions, proline cannot be utilized as a nitrogen 
source due to lack of oxygen which is needed 
stoichiometrically, not catalytically, for the 
degradation of proline. The proline permease 
also requires 02 for expression, thus, this 
amino acid will not be taken up by the cells in 
the absence of 02' In wines, the proline con­
tent is generally as high or even higher than 
that in the must. 
Arginine degradation is first catalyzed by 
arginase (Figure 4-26) yielding ornithine and 
urea (Middlehoven 1964). Urea is further de­
graded by a bifunctional enzyme urea ami­
dolyase (Sumrada and Cooper 1982; Whitney 
and Cooper 1972). Urea amidolyase comprises 
two activities: urea carboxylase, yielding allo­
phanate, and allophanate hydrolase, produc­
ing two molecules each of ammonia and car­
bon dioxide. Many other organisms possess 
ureases, which degrade urea directly to two 
molecules of ammonia and one of carbon 
dioxide (Large 1986). Saccharomyces does not 
possess a urease activity (Cooper 1982a; Large 
1986). The question arises as to the physiologi­
cal reason for the evolution of a two-step 
degradation pathway for urea. This pathway 
consumes energy in the urea carboxylase reac­
tion, as well as requiring an essential vitamin, 
biotin, for the degradation of urea. Thus, urea 
will not be degraded by Saccharomyces, if en­
ergy or vitamins are insufficient. This strategy 
may serve to release excess nitrogen in the 
form of urea, which is relatively nontoxic, via 
the urea-facilitated diffusion permease rather 
than produce ammonium ions, the latter be­
ing more toxic and not as readily excreted 
since a facilitated diffusion system has not 
been described for ammonium ion. As men-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 163 
cytoplasm mitochondrion 
H H .... COOH H H .... COOH O:! H:P H .... COOH N-C N-C L~ N-C I \ I \ • \ 
H:!C, ,. CH:! 
C H:!C, ,. CH:! 
C '" prOline HC, ,.CH:! 
C 
H:! H:! oxidase H2 
L-prollne L-prollne <1 '-pyrroline 
Q) 5-carboxylate c: 
!!! l .c E 
Q) 
E 
iii (spontaneous) .c; 
"C c: 0 
J:. 8 
"" COOH E COOH CHO 
I I 5PC I 
CH:! CH:! CH2 I I dehydrongenase I 
CH:! 
I CH:! 
I ~H2 7 " HC-NH:! HC-NH:! HC-NH2 I I NAO+ I 
COOH COOH NAOH, COOH 
glutamate glutamate H+ glutamate 
Fig. 4-25. Pathway of proline degradation. 
tioned above, Saccharomyces tends to deplete 
the medium rapidly of available nitrogen-con­
taining compounds, and may on occasion wind 
up with an excessive internal concentration of 
nitrogen-containing compounds. The ability to 
release urea would allow the cell to adjust 
internal total metabolite pools of nitrogen 
compounds by producing a nitrogen com­
pound of low toxicity that can be readily taken 
back up when physiological or environmental 
conditions warrant it. It is interesting that urea 
is taken up via two distinct transport mecha­
nisms: an active, high-affinity transport system 
coupled to ion movements as are the amino 
acid permeases; and a low-affinity facilitated 
diffusion system, independent of ion move­
ments (Cooper 1982b; Cooper and Sumrada 
1975). 5-semialdehyde 
Ornithine, the other end product of the 
arginase reaction, can be further degraded via 
glutamate semialdehyde to proline or can be 
converted to polyamines. The genetic analysis 
of proline degradation revealed that ornithine 
degradation proceeds via proline as interme­
diate (Cooper 1982b). Proline is formed from 
ornithine in the cytoplasm, transported into 
the mitochondrion as proline, then converted 
to glutamate, as shown in Figure 4-25. Since 
proline cannot be metabolized under anaero­
bic fermentation conditions, ornithine cannot 
serve to form glutamate in the absence of 
oxygen. This is why, considering the usually 
high arginine content of musts, wines can con­
tain more proline than musts. However, or­
nithine is also the precursor of polyamines 
spermine, spermidine, and putrescine {Tabor 164 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
N~ 
I 
C=NH 
I 
NH 
I 
C~ 
I 
C~ 
I 
C~ 
I 
HC-N~ 
I 
COOH N~ 
I 
C=O 
I 
N~ 
urea 
a-keto C02. AlP N~ 
I 
'--C=O 2NH3 
~ I ~ NH + 
urea allophanate 2 C0.1 carboxylase I 
COOH hydrolase 
allophanate 
L-arginine 
glutarate glutamate \.. L~ CHO 
I 
C~ 
I 
C~ 
I omHhine 
5-aminotransferase HC-N~ 
I 
L-ornithine 
H H .... COOH N-C 
I \ 
H2C ..... ~C~ 
C COOH 
glutamate 
S-semialdehyde 
1l (~~"~"'I 
H .... COOH N-C . \ 
HC ..... ~CH2 
C 
H2 P5C reductase ~ 
L-proline 
Fig. 4-26. Pathway of arginine degradation. 
et al. 1983) (Figure 4-27). Polyamines are re­
quired in high concentration during growth, 
although the exact physiological function of 
the polyamines remains obscure. 
5. Important End Products of Nitrogen 
Metabolism 
a. Branch-Chain Amino Acids and 
Higher Alcohols 
The metabolism of nitrogen-containing com­
pounds yields end products of sensory impor­
tance in perceived wine quality. Amino acids 
that are deaminated catabolically in order to 
release their nitrogen components leave be­
hind carbon skeletons which will generally 
represent a waste product from the yeast's 
viewpoint. Deamination of amino acids can /:J. l-pyrroline 
5-carboxylate 
result in the formation of the a-keto acids or 
of higher (fusen alcohols via the metabolic 
mechanism shown in Figure 4-28. In addition 
to being produced due to deamination, decar­
boxylation and reduction of nitrogen-source 
amino acids, higher alcohols can also be pro­
duced during the biosynthesis of amino acids 
from the excess of their corresponding keto 
acids, which has been best characterized in 
resting cells (Nykanen 1986; Webb and Ingra­
ham 1963). This formation from glucose has 
already been discussed above (Section H.2). 
Another paradox is that the formation of fusel 
alcohols also occurs late in fermentation, also 
after the period of rapid consumption of 
amino acids (Webb and Ingraham 1963). La­
beling studies using radioactively labeled pre­
cursors demonstrated that fusel oil could be Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 165 
~I-I:! ~I-I:! 
tl-l:!)3 I 
HC-NI-I:! ------l.~ CI-I:!)4 
I I 
COOH 
ornithine 
Adenosine 
I ornithine 
decarboxylase 
+S- CH3 _ 
I 
CI-I:! S-adenosylrnethionine 
tl-l:! decarboxylase 
I 
H~fH 
COOH 
S-adenosylmethionine NI-I:! 
putrescine 
Adenosine 
I 
+S- CH3 
I 
CI-I:!)3 I 
NI-I:! 
NI-I:! 
I 
fl-l:!)3 
NH 
I 
tHz)4 
I 
NH I 
fl-l:!)3 
NI-I:! 
spermine 
Fig. 4-27. Pathway of polyamine biosynthesis. spermine 
synthase aminopropyl 
transferase 
spermidine 
formed from carbon substrates, the so-called 
Ehrlich reaction (Nykanen 1986; Webb and 
Ingraham 1963). This work was also confirmed 
by the investigation of fusel oil formation dur­
ing resting cell fermentations using mutations 
of specific steps in amino acid biosynthesis 
(Webb and Ingraham 1963). These aux­
otrophic mutants were supplied with the re­
quired amino acids needed for growth, yet no 
corresponding higher alcohols were observed, 
which would have been expected if degrada­
tion were the main route to fusel oil formation 
under these conditions. In these mutants, dif­
ferent higher alcohols were produced, with the final total concentration of higher alcohols 
being similar. The principal higher alcohols 
and their precursors are shown in Table 4-11. 
The experimental evidence for this pathway 
has been verified in the induction and isola­
tion of a leucine-less homothallic mutant of 
Montrachet wine yeast strain, which does not 
produce isoamyl alcohol from glucose (Rous 
et al. 1983; Kunkee et al. 1983). The addition 
of the amino acids valine, leucine, and 
isoleucine can enhance the formation of the 
corresponding higher alcohol Gsobutanol, 
isoamyl alcohol, and active amyl alcohol, re­
spectively) but not proportionately so (Guymon 
Deamination Decarboxylation Reduction 
R R R R 
I I I I 
H-C-NI-I:! ')-C=O ')-H-C=O "7 '\ H-C-OH 
I I I 
COOH COOH H 
NADH, NAD+ 
amino acid NI-I:! a-keto acid CO2 aldehyde H+ alcohol 
Fig. 4-28. Pathway of higher-alcohol formation from amino acids. 166 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Table 4-11. Derivatives of amino acid metabolism. 
Amino Acid a-KetoAcid Higher alcohol 
Leucine 
Isoleucine 
Valine 
Threonine 
Tyrosine 
Phenylalanine 
Tryptophan a-Isocaproate 
a-Ket(}-j3-methyl valerate 
a-Ketoisovalerate 
a-Ketobutyrate 3-Methylbutanol 
2-Methylbutanol 
Isobutanol 
Propanol 
Tyrosol 3-( 4-HydroxyphenyO-2-ketopropionate 
3-Phenyl-2-ketopropionate Phenethyl alcohol 
Tryptophol 
1972). Their formation is tied to the produc­
tion of ethanol (from sugar) rather than the 
uptake of amino acids during yeast growth and 
they are produced at levels above that ex­
pected from the utilization of the correspond­
ing amino acid. The one exception to this 
appears to be the formation of n-propanol 
(Guymon et al. 1961) which seems to be tied 
to yeast growth (Usseglio-Tomasset 1975). 
Other studies investigating the role of threo­
nine and isoleucine (Reazin et al. 1973) found 
that in S~ cerevisiae, isoleucine is converted to 
only active amyl alcohol as a product while 
threonine produces n-propanol, active amyl 
alcohol, and isoamyl alcohol. One of the few 
reports in which the amino acid content of 70 
juices (from six cultivars) was correlated with 
the formation of the corresponding higher 
alcohol (Cantagrel et al. 1982) found only 
phenethyl alcohol to be enhanced at low 
phenylalanine concentrations. Dickinson and 
Norte (1993) have studied a transaminase sys­
tem in Saccharomyces cerevisiae specific for 
branched-chain amino acids, which they claim 
obviates the Ehrlich pathway, or at least the 
first part of it. However, it is doubtful that 
their system is operative during fermentation 
conditions. In any case, the Ehrlich pathway, 
and the transaminase portion thereof, has 
been firmly established (see above). 
The higher alcohols are also produced when 
ammonia is the sole nitrogen source in the 
fermentation medium (Ayrapaa 1973). There 
are some contradictory results about the ef­
fects of additions of ammonia on the higher 
alcohol production, but the nature of their 
formation with most nitrogen sources, that is increasing with increasing nitrogen concentra­
tion up to a point and then decreasing at 
higher nitrogen concentrations (Ayrapaa 
1973), may explain much of the variation in 
the results. The peak production appears at 
approximately 120 mgjL assimilable nitrogen 
(with ammonia) and 200 mgjL in amino acid 
mixtures. At levels above 400 mgjL nitrogen 
there is essentially no concentration effect 
(Ayrapaa 1973, Rapp 1975). The general ex­
ception to this pattern is the production of 
n-propanol, which usually increases with in­
creasing nitrogen concentration up to the 400 
mgjL level (Ayrapaa 1973; Vos et al. 1978; 
Ough and Be111980; Cantagrel et al. 1982). 
The exact function of fusel oil formation is 
not known. Fusel oil formation may simply 
serve to detoxify any aldehydes that are pro­
duced during amino acid catabolism. Another 
speculatory role for fusel oils might be in 
regulation of amino acid anabolism. Accumu­
lation of fusel alcohols may indicate a block of 
or lack of available nitrogen for amino acid 
biosynthesis and these compounds may some­
how mediate the starvation signal, serving to 
modulate nitrogen metabolism as opposed to 
being simple waste carbon. The formation does 
not seem to be important as a means for 
reoxidation of NADH, which occurs during 
the reduction of the higher aldehyde to the 
higher alcohol, since there appears to be 
enough acetaldehyde for this. 
b. Urea and Ethyl Carbamate 
Urea is also an important end product of 
nitrogen metabolism as this compound can 
react with ethanol to form ethyl carbamate (Monteiro et al. 1989; Ough et al. 1988a; Ough 
et al. 1988b), a suspected carcinogen (Pound 
1967; Mirvish 1968; McCann et al. 1975). It is 
highly desirable therefore, to eliminate or re­
duce as much as possible the appearance of 
urea in the fermentation medium. Striking 
strain and temperature effects have been ob­
served which affect final juice urea levels 
(Famuyiwa and Ough 1991). Urea levels are 
also strongly correlated with juice arginine 
content, not surprisingly considering urea is 
an intermediate of arginine breakdown. Urea 
in wine can be eliminated by enzymatic treat­
ment with urease (Famuyiwa and Ough 1991) 
and minimized by fermentation and fortifica­
tion timing. 
Amino acids appear in the wine postfer­
mentation (Monteiro and Bisson 1991a, 1992b; 
Ough et al. 1990, 1991). Release of amino 
acids at the end of wort fermentation has also 
been reported (Lewis and Phaff 1964). The 
distribution of the amino acids at the end of 
fermentation is not well-correlated with the 
starting composition of the juice (Monteiro 
and Bisson 1992b), most likely reflecting the 
optimal yeast cellular pool levels for these 
compounds. These compounds may be re­
leased as a function of yeast autolysis; however, 
we have observed this release when greater 
than 90% of the cells present in the wine are 
still viable, suggesting that the release may 
serve some metabolic or physiological role for 
the yeast, perhaps in enhanced survival. 
6. Nitrogen Metabolism and Effect on 
Glycolytic Flux 
Nitrogen affects fermentation rate directly by 
controlling availability of amino acid precur­
sors for the biosynthesis of proteins of glycoly­
sis and yeast cell biomass, as well as affecting 
flux through the glycolytic pathway. Two 
mechanisms explaining the effect of nitrogen 
on fermentation rate have been proposed. 
Ammonium ion serves as an allosteric effector 
in regulation of phosphofructokinase activity 
and there is as yet an ill-defined effect of 
nitrogen compounds on glucose (fructose) Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 167 
transporter activity (Busturia and Lagunas 
1986; Lagunas et al. 1982; Pena et al. 1987). 
Nitrogen limitation results in the accelerated 
turnover of glucose permeases, thus reducing 
fermentative capacity (Lagunas et al. 1982; 
Salmon 1989). This reduction in sugar perme­
ase activity subsequently slows rate of fermen­
tation, resulting in a sluggish or incomplete 
fermentation, another reason nitrogen defi­
ciency correlates with the incidence of high 
residual sugar. 
J. SULFUR METABOLISM 
DURING FERMENTATION 
Saccharomyces can utilize sulfate, sulfite, sulfide, 
or thiosulfate as a source of sulfur for biosyn­
thesis (Thomas et al. 1992). Thiosulfate is first 
cleaved to sulfite and sulfide prior to utiliza­
tion and, therefore, both sulfur atoms can be 
used (Thomas et al. 1992). Utilization of sulfite 
is limited by the toxicity of this compound 
(Stratford and Rose 1985). Organic com­
pounds, cysteine, methionine, homocysteine, 
and S-adenosylmethionine can also serve as 
sulfur sources (Thomas et al. 1992). 
The assimilation of sulfate requires five en­
zymatic reactions (Figure 4-29). Sulfate reduc­
tion proceeds via formation of phospho sulfate 
intermediates. ATP sulfurylase catalyzes the 
formation of adenosine 5' -phosphosulfate 
(APS) from ATP and sulfate. APS kinase cat­
alyzes the formation of 3' -phosphoadenosine 
5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS). PAPS reductase is 
responsible for the formation of sulfite. Sulfite 
reductase catalyzes the six-electron reduction 
of sulfite to sulfide and is a complex enzyme. 
There appear to be two distinct sulfite reduc­
tases in Saccharomyces, one that utilizes carrier­
bound sulfite and the other free sulfite 
(Umbarger 1978). Mutations of five different 
genes affect sulfite reductase activity and ei­
ther encode subunits of the enzyme or are 
involved in the generation of siroheme re­
quired for sulfite reductase activity (Thomas et 
al. 1992; Cherest and Surdin-Kerjan 1992). In 
Saccharomyces, sulfide is then transferred to 0-168 Yeast and Biochemist ry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Outside 
(medium) G) c ca .... .a 
E 
G) 
E Inside 
(cytopla smic) 
sulfate 
{ (ATP sulfurylase , MET3) 
adenos ine 5'-phosphosu lfate 
{ (APS kinase , MET 14) 
3'-phosphoade nosine 5'-phosphos ulfate 
{ (PAPS reductase , MET16) 
sulfite 
.1 (sulfite reductase , MET1, 
't' MET5 , MET8 , MET10 , MET20) 
sulfide 
ca E en 
III 
Q. 
Fig. 4-29. Pathw ay for sulfate reduction. 
acetylhomoserine generating homoc ysteine 
(Cherest and Surdin-Kerjan 1992). Sulfide does 
not appear to be incorporated directly into 
O-acetylserine in Saccharomyces in contrast to 
other microorganisms (Cherest and Surdin­
Kerjan 1992). Therefore , cysteine is not pro­
duced directly from sulfation of serine. Homo­
cysteine (4C) and cysteine (3C) are intercon­
verted by the C3 to C4 and C4 to C3 trans 
sulfuration pathways (Figure 4-30). Interest­
ingly , the zero-valent (elemental) form of sul­
fur is not observed in any of the enzymatic 
pathways of the reduction of sulfate or sulfite 
to sulfide. 
Organic sulfur sources can also be inter­
convert ed using the trans-sulfuration pathways. 
The genetics of sulfate reduction, assimilation, 
and utilization are complex and several genes 
involved in sulfur assimilation have as yet 
unidentified functions (Thomas et al. 1992; 
Cherest and Surdin-Kerjan 1992). The sulfur source utilized during ferment a­
tion depends upon the compounds availabl e. 
Methionine represses synthesis of the sulfate 
permease and of the enzymes involved in sul­
fate reduction . Sulfite competes with sulfat e 
for uptake , but there are reports of transport 
of sulfite in the absence of sulfate uptak e 
ability (Stratford and Rose 1985) . Sulfite up­
take did not require an energy source, and 
may occur by simple diffusion (Stratford and 
Rose 1986). 
K. PROBLEM FERMENTATIONS 
1. Stuck or Sluggish Fermentations 
There are two general classes of problems for 
the winemaker that can arise during the alco­
holic fermentation : sluggish or stuck fermen ­
tations and off-fla vor production. In some in-SH 
I 
CH:! I 
CH:! 
I H-C- NH3+ 
I 
COO-
Homocysteine CHa 
(5-methyl 
tetrahydrofolate) 
\. CHa 
I 
S 
I 
CH:! 
I 
CH:! 
I 
H-C-NHa+ 
I 
COO-
Methionine 
s~ Serine 
o 
II 
H~-O-C-COO­
I 
CH2 
I H-C-NH 3+ 
I 
~C, o 0 
O-Acetyl 
homoserine 
Acetyl CoA H:! 
H~-C-S-CH:! 
I I 
HC-NH3+ HC-NHa+ 
I I 
COO- COO-
Cystathionine 
SH 
I 
CH:! 
I 
H-C-NHa+ 
I 
COO-
Cysteine 
Fig. 4-30. Pathways of sulfur assimilation. 
stances these problems are easily treated, while 
in others they present a serious challenge to 
the production of a sound wine. Causes of 
sluggish or stuck fermentations are given in 
Table 4-12. The effect of excessive sugar con­
tent on yeast growth and fermentation has 
been discussed (Section E). The production of 
excessive amounts of ethanol, coming from 
harvest of over-ripe grapes can play a role. 
However, contrary to what might be expected, 
the intracellular concentrations of ethanol 
nominally produced do not seem to exhibit 
any toxic effects specifically associated with 
sluggish fermentations (see below). Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 169 
a. Nutrient Deficiency 
A sluggish fermentation is one in which the 
rate of fermentation of sugar slows dramati­
cally, leaving a high (greater than 0.2% v Iv) 
sugar concentration in the finished wine, or 
where the end of the fermentation is so pro­
tracted, even if dryness eventually arrives, 
much extra care and attention must be given 
to the wine so as to make the economics of its 
production of special concern (Kunkee 1991). 
Sluggish fermentations are often caused by 
nutrient limitation. Deficiencies in nitrogen or 
phosphate are most frequently responsible for 
a stuck fermentation. Agenbach (1977) re­
ported that 0.5 giL of usable nitrogen was 
necessary for maximal yeast biomass produc­
tion and rapid fermentation rates. Approxi­
mately 0.2 giL of nitrogen is needed for fer­
mentations to go completely to dryness. Phos­
phate may also be limiting in grape juice. 
Occasionally, both nitrogen and phosphate 
may be limiting. It is common industry prac­
tice to supplement with diammonium phos­
phate, thereby providing both nutrients simul­
taneously. 
As mentioned earlier, yeast strains display 
different sensitivities to nitrogen limitation. 
Some strains maintain fermentation rates at 
nitrogen concentrations that are deficient for 
other strains. 
Grape juice generally contains sufficient 
micronutrients, vitamins and minerals, to sup­
port yeast growth. In contrast to macronutri­
ents, micro nutrients such as vitamins are not 
used stoichiometrically, but can be utilized 
repeatedly. Thus, numerous generations may 
be required before a micronutrient deficiency 
becomes apparent, while the impact of a 
macronutrient deficiency will be almost imme­
diate. Two situations may generate a micronu­
trient deficiency. Extensive mold infestation of 
the grape berries may deplete the juice of 
nutrients or introduce inhibitors leading to a 
stuck fermentation. Second, if the winery 
practice is to inoculate from one tank to an­
other, the yeast population may be prestarved 
for a limiting nutrient. 170 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Table 4-12. Causes of stuck or sluggish fermentations. 
Nutrient limitation: Macronutrient: 
Micronutrient: Nitrogen 
Phosphate 
Vitamins 
Minerals 
Improperly grown inoculum 
Substrate inhibition: Excess of sugars, glucose and fructose 
(high Brix) 
Ethanol toxicity: Deficiency of survival factors: Sterols, unsaturated fatty acids 
Toxic substances: Deficiency of oxygen 
Improperly grown inoculum 
Organic acids: Acetate 
Propionate 
Butyrate 
Pentainoate 
Fatty acids: 
Fungicide residues 
Pesticide residues 
Microbial toxins: 
ExcessS0 2 cis rather than trans 
medium chain (C6-CIO) 
Yeast killer factors 
Mycotoxins 
Temperature shock: Supercooling of fermentation 
Overheating due to release of heat from 
yeast metabolism 
Addition of the nutrients that are deficient b. Ethanol Toxicity 
in the grape juice in some cases may allow the 
fermentation to complete. However, if the fer­
mentation has been arrested for too long or 
the limitation has resulted in loss of yeast cell 
viability, simple nutrient addition will probably 
not resolve the problem. Reinoculation with a 
healthy yeast culture is often required. In all 
cases, the best procedure is to begin with a 
new starter culture, in fresh medium, and to 
which is added, stepwise, equal volumes of the 
stuck fermentations. The additions of the stuck 
material are made only to the new starter after 
vigorous fermentation is evident, that is when 
the new culture has shown adaptation to the 
problem medium. It is important that sluggish 
fermentations be recognized and properly di­
agnosed early, prior to full arrest of the cul­
ture. Computer-assisted fermentation monitor­
ing at very early stages in the fermentation 
should allow later detection of problem fer­
mentations so that corrective steps can be 
taken. While several conditions can ultimately result 
in a sluggish or stuck fermentation of grape 
juice, the underlying cause must always be 
attributed to the toxic effect of the high con­
centration of ethanol produced. Interestingly, 
with the advent of higher gravity wort fermen­
tations, the modern brewing industry also has 
problems with sluggish fermentations (Casey 
et al. 1984). 
The inhibitory effect of ethanol ought to be 
seen early in the fermentation, since yeast 
growth rates are more sensitive to ethanol 
inhibition than are the fermentation rates 
(Leao and van Uden 1985; Navarro and Du­
rand 1978). The inhibitory effect of ethanol 
on the specific growth rates of yeasts has been 
measured (Aiba et al. 1968; Thomas and Rose 
1979; Beavan et al. 1982), and mathematical 
models have been derived to show the rela­
tionship between yeast growth and ethanol 
concentration (Boulton 1980; Pamment 1989). Furthermore, ethanol is known to inhibit the 
uptake of sugars and amino acids (Kunkee and 
Bisson 1993), which should also contribute to 
the inhibitory effect on growth. However, in ~_ 
grape juice fermentation, the concentration of 
ethanol needed to show an effect on growth 
rate does not come, in fact, until the yeasts are 
nearing the stationary phase of growth (Boul­
ton 1980; Pamment 1989). The noticeably 
slower growth rate of yeasts in grape juice, as 
compared to that in laboratory medium, is an 
effect of sugar inhibition-glucose repression 
(Section E)-and not of ethanol toxicity. 
In this regard, it is well to point out here 
that the inhibitory effects of high concentra­
tions of sugar in grape juice on the fermenta­
tion are often not appreciated. Under certain 
conditions, where the sugar concentrations are 
intentionally kept low, as in the syruped fer­
mentations, the ethanol production will far 
exceed that of the accepted cutoff point of 
14% (v Iv). In fact, sake fermentations nor­
mally result in a product of 20 to 21 % (v Iv) 
ethanol! The latter fermentation (Kodama 
1993) takes place in the continual presence of 
very low concentrations of glucose, coming 
from the balance between the hydrolysis of 
rice (starch) by the koji mold (Aspergillus) and 
fermentation by yeast (Saccharomyces). Thus 
glucose repression factors are avoided. 
The inhibitory effect on yeast activity, obvi­
ous at the end of grape juice fermentations, 
does come from ethanol toxicity. The toxic 
effects of ethanol seem to be several, and the 
yeasts' responses to ethanol challenge seem 
also to be several (Section L); but the chief 
impact of ethanol is its effect on the yeast 
plasma membrane and on the membrane's 
permeability. This has been demonstrated in 
two important kinds of experiments. In the 
first, increased formation of ethanol, which 
inhibits yeast fermentation, also led to a loss in 
cellular constituents, especially in the metal 
ion components, primarily magnesium and 
calcium. Replacement of these components 
reversed the inhibition (Dombeck and Ingram 
1986; Nabais et al. 1988). Interestingly enough, 
the effective supplemental concentrations of Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 171 
these ions were about that found naturally in 
grape juices (Kunkee and Bisson 1993). The 
other evidence for increased permeability is 
the increased passive diffusion of protons, re­
sulting in an acidification or a deacidification 
of the medium, depending upon the initial 
pH, as ethanol is produced (Leao and van 
Uden 1984b; Jimenez and van Uden 1985; 
Cartwright et al. 1986; Juroszek et al. 1987; 
Delfini and Pravex 1989; Malfeito-Ferreira et 
al. 1990). 
The mechanisms of the increased perme­
ability of the plasma membrane due to ethanol 
challenge are not well understood, but they 
seem to have to do both with the effect on the 
activity of membrane ATPase and on the flu­
idity of the membrane. The increased passive 
diffusion of protons mentioned above indi­
cates a greater expenditure of ATP needed by 
the cell to maintain the desired internal pH, 
in confrontation to the high concentration of 
external protons. That is to say, the dissipation 
of the proton gradient induced by ethanol 
could be explained both by the effect on the 
permeability and on the membrane ATPase 
activity. These two effects are summarized here 
(Kunkee and Bisson 1993). 
The effect on changes in permeability of 
the membrane brought about by ethanol are 
associated with fluidity changes of the mem­
brane, which has been shown to occur in 
many cellular membranes exposed to ethanol 
(Kunkee and Bisson 1993; Sun and Sun 1985; 
Goldstein 1987). The membrane's permeabil­
ity and fluidity have to do with the comple­
ment in the membrane of certain sterols and 
long chain fatty acids, especially unsaturated 
ones. These components, the so-called survival 
factors, are produced by the yeast only under 
aerobic conditions. Molecular oxygen is re­
quired as the hydrogen acceptor in the first 
reaction of sterol biosynthesis, the folding of 
the precursor compound into the sterol form, 
catalyzed by squalene oxidase (Henry 1982); 
and molecular oxygen is also required as the 
hydrogen acceptor during the introduction of 
double bonds in the generation of unsaturated 
fatty acids, by the enzyme desaturase (Kirsop 172 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
1982). Neither of these activities is subject to 
glucose repression. The survival factors-these 
unsaturated long-chain fatty acid and sterols, 
the latter often also having unsaturated side 
chains-are so named because their effects 
are especially demonstrable in yeast in over­
coming the toxicity of high concentrations of 
ethanol. That is, their presence gives an in­
creased concentration of viable cells at the 
end of vinification fermentations (Lafon­
Lafourcade et al. 1979; Traverso-Rueda and 
Kunkee 1982). These compounds are also un­
doubtedly needed at very low concentrations 
as "growth factors," but this need can be 
demonstrated only under rigorously anaerobic 
conditions (Lagunas 1981; Macy and Miller 
1983). Further discussion of the survival fac­
tors, and their role in response to ethanol 
challenge, is given in the section below on 
ethanol tolerance (Section L). 
The other effect of the increased passive 
diffusion of protons is a greater expenditure 
of ATP needed by the cell to maintain the 
desired internal pH (Figure 4-22). The dissipa­
tion of the proton gradient induced by ethanol 
can be explained by the increased permeabil­
ity and by the inhibition of membrane ATPase 
activity (Cartwright et al. 1987). It could also 
be explained by an activation of ATPase activ­
ity (Rosa and Sa-Correia 1991) -for reestab­
lishment of the disturbed intracellular pH 
(Kunkee and Bisson 1993). 
Ethanol toxicity in yeast is complex and 
apparently multivalent. A single mechanism of 
toxicity would seem to invite a genotypic re­
sponse. However, all kinds of exposures of 
yeasts to ethanol, even haploid heterothallic 
strains, has never resulted in the selection 
of a mutant with obviously increased ethanol 
tolerance. 
One early attempt to explain the toxicity 
was the obvious one that there is a buildup on 
the internal concentration of ethanol, result­
ing in denaturation of key enzymes (see Kun­
kee and Bisson (1993) for further details and 
references for the work summarized here). 
The experiments made to measure the intra­
cellular ethanol concentration have generated a lot of controversy. The best efforts (Rose et 
al. 1982) indicate that the internal concentra­
tion of ethanol does build up, to be at least 
the same, or slightly higher, as that on the 
outside, which is considerable in a vinificatioll 
fermentation. Nevertheless, studies of the ef­
fect of ethanol on enzyme activities did not 
substantiate this role in the toxicity (Kunkee 
and Bisson 1993). 
The inhibitory effect of ethanol seen at the 
end of a wine fermentation, especially in slug­
gish fermentations, may be a result from the 
effect on the fermentation capacity of the cell 
or from the effect on the viability. Important 
as this consideration is, the assessment of via­
bility versus fermentative capacity is difficult. 
Viability as measured by plating of the culture 
on an enriched medium is not necessarily the 
same as that obtained by measurement with 
methylene blue stain (Pierce 1970). It is also 
difficult to assess the correct proportion of the 
total yeast biomass, much of which has settled 
with the gross lees, contributing either to the 
viable count or to the fermentation capacity. 
Sa-Correia and van Uden (1986) found an 
exponential relationship between ethanol and 
the specific death rate of yeast. Kalmokoff and 
Ingledew (1985) showed that cell growth wa~ 
already inhibited when significant losses in 
viability were first noticeable. Brown et al. 
(1981) also found that the loss of cell viability 
was the most important effect. 
Further insight into the effects of ethanol 
can be obtained from reviews by Ingram and 
Buttke (1984), van Uden (1989), and by the 
examination of the responses of yeast to the 
toxicity, given in the section on ethanol toler­
ance (Section L). 
c. Toxins 
If a stuck fermentation is a consequence of the 
presence of toxic substances on the fruit, 
reinoculation and fermentation to dryness 
might be unsuccessful. Ethanol decreases 
plasma membrane impermeability to many 
small ions in addition to H+. The simultane­
ous presence of ethanol plus a toxic ion such 
as F-found in some pesticides, for example, may more strongly inhibit yeast growth and 
fermentation than either substance alone. 
Toxins might also arise as a consequence of 
microbial activity. Saccharomyces will be inhib­
ited by many organic acids, medium-length 
fatty acids, and cis fatty acids. These com­
pounds are not normally present in grape 
juice, but can be synthesized by microorgan­
isms found in the fruit or juice, or can derive 
from grape components depending upon must 
treatment. Organic acid inhibition of growth 
is thought to be due to the reduction of cyto­
plasmic pH caused by uptake of these com­
pounds (Cardoso and Leao 1992). Medium­
chain-length fatty acids such as decanoic acid, 
are produced by yeast and are also inhibitory 
to cell metabolism (Rosi and Bertuccioli 1984). 
However, under vinification conditions, these 
acids seem either to be adsorbed by the yeast 
or metabolized by them midway through the 
fermentation and exhibit no inhibitory effect 
(Lee and Kunkee 1988). Certain strains of 
Saccharomyces produce a small peptide known 
as killer factor that inhibits the growth of 
other killer-sensitive strains of Saccharomyces. 
There are three major different classes of killer 
factor, known as K1, K2, and K3 (Young 1987; 
van Vuuren and Jacobs 1992). The K2 toxin 
has been shown to be active in grape juice. If 
the yeast conducting the fermentation is sensi­
tive to this toxin and it is produced by a wild 
strain of Saccharomyces, stuck fermentation may 
result. Reinoculation with a killer factor resis­
tant strain will overcome this problem. The 
trichothecene mycotoxin, T2, produced by 
Fusarium, Mycothecium, Trichothecium, 
Cephalosporium, and Stachybotrys species inhibits 
Saccharomyces (Koshinsky et al. 1992). These 
mold genera are less commonly found on fruit 
and more commonly found in grains and ce­
reals, but are fairly widespread in nature. An 
inhibitory product, botrycin, has been invoked 
but not entirely justified in sluggish fermenta­
tions of botrytized musts. 
d. Temperature Effects 
Extremes of temperature, either too warm due 
to the heat given off during fermentation Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 173 
combined with little to no heat exchange ca­
pability of the fermentor, or too cool due to 
supercooling of the fermentation, will impact 
yeast growth and metabolism. However, once 
stuck, fermentations do not easily restart by 
simple adjustment of the temperature, even if 
that was the original problem. Temperature 
also affects plasma membrane fluidity. The 
combination of ethanol and extremes of tem­
perature is particularly challenging to a micro­
bial cell in terms of maintenance of plasma 
membrane function and integrity. 
2. Production of Off-Characters 
The second class of fermentation problems, 
besides stuck fermentations, concerns the pro­
duction of off-characters, off-flavors, or aroma 
compounds detracting from overall wine qual­
ity. Acetic acid has already been discussed, in 
this regard, as have the higher (fuse!) alcohols 
(Section H). Saccharomyces strains have also 
been implicated in the production of certain 
volatile phenols in wine (Chatonnet et al. 
1993). The yeast enzymatically produce vinyl 
phenols from plant phenolic precursors. These 
compounds may have a decided medicinal or 
phenolic aroma. 
a.. Sulfur-Containing Volatiles 
An important class of spoilage compounds are 
the sulfur-containing volatiles. The formation 
of trace levels of volatile sulfur compounds 
during fermentation continues to be a signifi­
cant problem. This group includes com­
pounds which are very volatile and have un­
pleasant odors generally described in terms of 
rotten eggs, skunk aroma, garlic, or onion. 
Although they are produced at only tens to 
hundreds of micrograms per liter levels, and 
represent only a trace abnormality in fermen­
tation biochemistry, their sensory impact is 
obvious and damaging. The formation of the 
thiols, ethane thiol and methane thiol, during 
wine fermentations by yeast has recently been 
investigated with the aid of gas chromatogra­
phy using capillary columns and sulfur-specific 
detectors. The formation of other sulfur com-174 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
pounds such as carbonyl sulfide, carbon disul­
fide, and dimethyl disulfide has also only re­
cently been investigated (De Mora et al. 1986; 
Eschenbruch et al. 1986). The factors influ­
encing their formation are not well under­
stood at this time. 
Foremost among the sulfur-containing 
volatiles is hydrogen sulfide (H2S), or the rot­
ten egg character. Many factors may drive or 
contribute to H2S production. Hydrogen sul­
fide can be produced by yeast during fermen­
tation due to the presence of elemental sulfur 
on grape skins (Rankine 1963; Acree et al. 
1972; Schutz and Kunkee 1977; Wenzel and 
Dittrich 1978; Thomas et al. 1993b); inade­
quate levels, or mixtures of free a-amino ni­
trogen (FAN) in the must (Vos and Gray 1979; 
Monk 1986; Henschke and Jiranek 1991; Ji­
ranek and Henschke 1991), a deficiency of 
pantothenic acid (Tokuyama et al. 1973) or 
pyridoxine (Wainwright 1971) or higher than 
usual levels of cysteine (Eschenbruch and Bon­
ish 1976) in the juice; and yeast strains 
(Rankine 1964; Acree et al. 1972; Thomas et 
al. 1993b). A role of added sulfite has also 
been suggested (Muller-Spath et al. 1978; 
Wenzel and Dittrich 1978; Jiranek and Hen­
schke 1991) and there are opinions that the 
formation can be prevented by yeast selection 
(Rankine 1963; Zambonelli et al. 1984). 
Hydrogen sulfide may arise as an offshoot 
of sulfate reduction for biosynthesis. Sulfate 
uptake and reduction is regulated by methion­
ine levels, not by the levels of reduced sulfur 
within the cell. Thus, a block in metabolism or 
biosynthesis of the sulfur-containing amino 
acids may result in the formation of excess 
reduced sulfur, which is then released from 
the cells to the medium. Pantothenic acid 
deficiency, which would block methionine 
biosynthesis, can lead to H2S formation. Ni­
trogen deficiency would also block amino acid 
biosynthesis and lead to H2S formation. High 
concentrations of metal ions may also lead to 
H2S production. Yeast biomass, postfermenta­
tion in a medium high in copper, appears 
black due to the formation of cupric sulfide. 
Resistance to metal ions is in part due to the generation of metal ion-sulfide complexes that 
are deposited and effectively removed from 
the medium. 
There are clearly yeast strain factors that 
are important in hydrogen sulfide formation 
but many trials throughout the world have 
failed to come up with a consistently better 
yeast strain in terms of sulfide production. 
There continue to be strain effects in many of 
the possibilities that have been proposed and 
it is not clear which of these results is specific 
and which are general. Similarly, medium sup­
plements that have been found to be useful in 
certain regions have sometimes shown to be 
inconsistent when applied to juices in other 
places. This is generally due to investigators 
focusing more on what their treatments are 
rather than the juices to which they are ap­
plied. Even today it is usually not easy to 
conclude why a certain fermentation produces 
sulfides without sufficient chemical analysis of 
the initial juice. The analysis of the vitamin 
pool in juices remains difficult and is generally 
not attempted even though pantothenate de­
ficiency is known to be a possible cause of this 
problem. 
b. Elemental Sulfur 
The linkage of the presence of elemental sul­
fur during fermentation with hydrogen sulfide 
production is well known (Rankine 1963). In a 
later studies, Acree et al. (1972), Schutz and 
Kunkee (1977), Wenzel and Dittrich (1978) 
showed similar results using different mea­
surement methods ranging from the methy­
lene blue assay to a sulfide-specific ion elec­
trode. These early works bought about fuller 
attention to the importance of better vineyard 
management in the use of dusting sulfur for 
the control of mildew; and led to the current 
recommendations of no applications of sulfur 
within six weeks of harvest, and preferably 
none after veraison. 
It was not until recently that the actual 
levels of sulfur residues were measured and 
found to be in the range 1 to 5 mgjL for a 
number of field trials (Thomas et al. 1993a). 
Fermentations with additions at the 2-and 4-mg/L level were shown to exhibit more vari­
ation in sulfide production due to yeast strain 
and medium (model vs reconstituted juice) 
than that due the presence of the elemental 
sulfur (Thomas et al. 1993b). It is clear, look­
ing back, that the earlier laboratory studies 
showing the formation of hydrogen sulfide 
from elemental sulfur had used levels of sulfur 
that are rarely found if recommended prac­
tices (Gubler 1992) are followed. Nevertheless, 
it is still not uncommon to find intentional 
violation of these practices, especially in re­
gions of high mildew susceptibility, often with 
the expected bad results of hydrogen sulfide 
production. In white wine production, the 
problems coming from the presence of dust­
ing sulfur in the juice are greater lessened, in 
fact avoided, by conscientious settling and 
racking of the juice before fermentation. 
c. Amino Nitrogen 
The first studies to suggest a role of the nitro­
gen level (in particular the free a-amino nitro­
gen or FAN) of the juice in the formation of 
hydrogen sulfide were those by Vos and Gray 
(1979). Using primarily juices of one cultivar 
from one growing region, they found a gen­
eral reduction in the levels of H2S formed 
from around 100 fLg/L at 100 mg/L FAN to 
essentially zero at 300 to 400 mg/L FAN. 
These authors proposed that sulfide formation 
was caused by hydrolysis of juice proteins by 
extracellular proteases produced by the yeast 
when the available amino nitrogen pool was 
low. The release of sulfide from the scavenged 
amino acids from the hydrolyzed protein 
would explain their results, even though no 
extracellular proteases have even been 
demonstrated in Saccharomyces. The authors 
were able to show that a bentonite addition 
and removal prior to fermentation lowered 
the amount of sulfide formed, but it also 
caused drawn out and incomplete fermenta­
tions (see Chapter 5 for additional discussion 
of the role of suspended solids and fining 
materials on fermentation). Additions of di­
ammonium phosphate at levels of 160 mg 
N /L and 250 mg N /L were also found to Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 175 
lower the sulfide formation in certain juices 
but these led to available nitrogen concentra­
tions well above the 140 to 160 mg N/L gen­
erally considered adequate for normal fer­
mentations. In the overall correlations pre­
sented, even at levels of 200 mg/L FAN, there 
is very large scatter among the data, with sul­
fide production ranging between 50 and 900 
fLg/L. 
It is clear from this study that the FAN 
concentration alone is not the only factor re­
sponsible for the sulfide production, but rather 
there are secondary effects that vary widely in 
many juices. Other possible interpretations of 
these findings are that many of the juices used 
were deficient in pantothenic acid or pyridox­
ine, or that it is the proportions of certain 
amino acids within the FAN pool that are 
important in sulfide production. 
d. Presence of Sulfite and Strain Effects 
Recently there have been studies of the 
medium conditions that cause sulfide forma­
tion particularly in defined model juices 
(Eschenbruch 1978; Jiranek and Henschke 
1991; Hewitson 1993; Giudici and Kunkee 
1994). The first study suggested that hydrogen 
sulfide was produced when ammonia was de­
pleted from the medium and bisulfite was pre­
sent; however, this is not in line with most 
commercial fermentations in which ammonia 
is depleted within the first third of the fermen­
tation and there is little if any bisulfite remain­
ing either from addition or natural produc­
tion. The second study found strain differ­
ences in the influence of bisulfite on the hy­
drogen sulfide production, even with yeast 
strains that were considered to be unable to 
produce hydrogen sulfide. The third and 
fourth studies showed formation of H2S in 
nitrogen-deficient medium from the reduction 
of sulfate in the absence of sulfite. 
e. Vitamin Deficiencies 
The role of the vitamins, pantothenate, and 
pyridoxine, as requirements for the produc­
tion of the coenzymes essential to methionine 
and cysteine synthesis was investigated by 176 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
Wainwright (1970, 1971). He classified several 
yeast strains according to whether they had an 
absolute requirement for pantothenate or 
whether they could synthesize it. The need for 
pantothenate has been determined for some 
common wine strains (Ough et al. 1989) but 
there are others in general use whose require­
ments for either pantothenate or pyridoxine 
are not known. 
There continues to be a possible role of 
pantothenate deficiency in many commercial 
fermentations and experimental studies of hy­
drogen sulfide production. The addition of 
levels of pantothenate in the range 50 to 75 
J,Lg/L to all experimental juices is recom­
mended to eliminate any contributions of this 
kind. 
f. Other Factors 
There have also been a number of statistical 
studies of the amino acid composition of juices 
that have produced sulfides during fermenta­
tion, but there is no obvious correlation with 
individual or groups of amino acids. The ef­
fects of added threonine and methionine on 
hydrogen sulfide production found by Wain­
wright (1971) have not been seen in these 
correlations with problem juices over several 
seasons. 
One major component which has received 
little attention is the peptide pool, in particu­
lar the tripeptide glutathione. Recent work in 
which glutathione was added to model juices 
(Park 1993) suggests a role of glutathione sup­
pression of sulfide formation under certain 
conditions. 
Another driving force for H2S production 
may be the need to regenerate oxidized cofac­
tors, NAD+ or NADP+. Sulfate can serve as a 
terminal electron acceptor in many organisms. 
Initially, high levels of $02 may lead to H2S 
production because of the inhibition of ac­
etaldehyde reduction. Amino acid, vitamin, 
metal ion content and S02 utilization are all 
factors which contribute to H2S production. 
Sulfur dioxide can convert H 2 S to S, which 
may precipitate out of the wine, only later to 
reform H2S when conditions become favor-able for reduction, unless the precipitate IS 
removed. A very important determinant of 
H2S production is the yeast strain itself. Some 
wine yeasts seem to be high H2S producers 
depending upon sulfur source, for as yet un· 
determined reasons. Often the fastest fer­
menters produce more H2S. 
Complex sulfur-containing compounds such 
as dimethyl sulfide, methanethiol (methane 
thiol), ethanethiol (ethane thiol), dimethyl­
disulfide, and diethyl disulfide can also be 
produced as a consequence of yeast 
metabolism (Table 4-13). While the factors 
leading to the production of these compo­
nents have not been thoroughly elucidated, 
metabolism of sulfur-containing amino acids 
has been implicated in their synthesis. If metal 
ions are present in high enough concentra­
tions, under the appropriate conditions syn­
thesis of the sulfur-containing components may 
occur chemically within the wine as opposed 
to biochemically within the cells. The reac­
tions involving hydrogen sulfide and the thiols 
after they have been produced is discussed in 
more detail in Chapter 8. 
L. ETHANOL TOLERANCE 
We have mentioned that genetics of ethanol 
toxicity must be polyvalent, since, of the many 
research efforts to develop some sort of geno­
typic resistant strain, none has met with real 
success. Aquilera and Benitez (1985) have sug­
gested that some 250 genes might be involved 
Table 4-13. Sulfur and thiol compounds commonly found 
in defective wine. 
Compound 
Hydrogen sulfide 
Dimethyl sulfide 
Dimethyl disulfide 
Diethyl sulfide 
Ethyl mercaptan Threshold of detection in wine 
( /Lg/U 
< 1 
25 
29 
0.92 
1.1 
Source: From Goniak and Noble (I987); hydrogen sulfide value 
from MacRostie (I974). in the control of ethanol tolerance in yeast. 
Nevertheless, yeasts do show some adaptive 
responses to the challenge of ethanol toxicity. 
The most important response is that to the 
major toxic effect, the disruption in the mem­
brane permeability and change in fluidity. The 
membrane integrity depends upon the com­
plement of the survival factors, the sterols, and 
long-chain unsaturated fatty acids, which are 
formed only in the presence of molecular oxy­
gen. Thus, yeast cells with high concentrations 
of these factors have greater ability to finish a 
wine fermentation rapidly and with complete­
ness. That is part of the great success in the 
use of commercial available active dry wine 
yeasts as inocula, since they are grown under 
highly aerobic conditions and in low concen­
trations of glucose. That is, these cells have 
high concentrations of the survival factors, 
which can be distributed to the progeny 
formed during the six or seven generations of 
growth in a typical vinification (Section 6.1 a). 
Survival factor formation is not subject to glu­
cose inhibition, but the absence of glucose 
during the aerobic growth of the commercial 
cultures provides formation of other membra­
niac organelles in the cell, especially the mito­
chondria, which are also survival-factor-rich, 
and the factors therein can also be distributed 
to progeny after the switch to the fermentative 
anaerobic conditions. The ability for the sur­
vival factors to be formed in presence of glu­
cose helps explain the standard procedures 
used in natural fermentations, at least in Eu­
rope, of rousing the grape juice several times a 
day immediately after the crushing and before 
the fermentation is evident. This stirring (aer­
ation) provides the very much needed survival 
factors for the yeasts, which in these uninocu­
lated fermentations must go though some 20 
generations before full growth is obtained. 
Many yeast workers have shown an in­
creased incorporation of the survival factors, 
including saturated fatty acids of increased 
chain length, in the cell membranes in re­
sponse to ethanol challenge (Beavan et al. 
1982; Lafon-Lafourcade et al. 1977; Traverso­
Rueda and Kunkee 1982). This increased com-Yeast and Biochemistry oj Ethanol Fermentation 177 
plement of survival factors somehow over­
comes the disruptive effect of the ethanol, 
tending to return the membranes to their 
original permeability and fluidity. Most of 
these experiments were done in rather low 
concentrations of ethanol, but Beavan et al. 
(1982) and Kunkee (1990) also found the re­
sponse under winemaking conditions. Kunkee 
(1990) also found that wine yeast strains nor­
mally had higher complements of survival fac­
tors, as compared to nonwine strains; and that 
strains in both groups responded to the 
ethanol challenge, but that the response was 
greatest in the wine strains. 
We have been careful to mention the change 
in fluidity, which accompanies the change in 
permeability, without identifying whether the 
fluidity is increased or decreased. The kind of 
fluidity change is somewhat controversial, and 
probably dependent upon the method of mea­
surement. (See Kunkee and Bisson (1993) for 
selected references for the following technolo­
gies.) Magnetic resonance and fluorescence 
polarization have both been used to measure 
fluidity, defined as the restriction of the free 
lateral diffusion of membrane proteins in the 
fluid-mosaic bilayer of the membrane. Differ­
ential scanning calorimetry has also been used, 
with increased fluidity defined in relation to 
the disorder in the membrane. Further discus­
sion on fluidity, with relation to the perme­
ability in the membrane is given by Kunkee 
and Bisson (I993), who also pointed out that 
the response of mammalian cells to the 
disordering or fluidizing effects of ethanol 
may not be appropriate when applied to 
microorganisms. 
Another mechanism implicated in ethanol 
tolerance is the cellular alcohol dehydroge­
nase (ADH) activity. In model wine fermenta­
tions, the highest ADH activities were found in 
those yeast strains which showed the fastest 
fermentation rates during the end phases of 
fermentation; that is, in those strains which 
were the most ethanol tolerant (Chin 1989; 
Kunkee 1990). Furthermore, the fermentation 
rates of the final phases of fermentation, over 
a spectrum of temperatures, showed a correla-178 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
tion between the temperatures of the fermen­
tation and the specific activities of ADH mea­
sured at a fixed temperature (Massantini and 
Kunkee 1989). This again shows a difference 
between wine yeast strains and other yeast 
strains, and also a difference in their relative 
adaptive behaviors. The increased ADH activ­
ity at the end of the fermentation reflects 
some sort of increased metabolism, and may 
be related to the removal of acetaldehyde, 
itself a toxic product. 
The adaptive behavior of yeast to ethanol 
response is also found in the relative resistance 
of the cells to ethanol formed during fermenta­
tion, in contrast to the high sensitivity of cells 
to ethanol supplementation. For example, in 
dessert wine production, the ethanol addition 
necessary to arrest the fermentation is less 
than that which brings about a natural arrest 
(Kunkee and Amerine 1968). Other workers, 
however, have found an opposite effect. Nago­
dawithana and Steinkraus (1976) and Novak et 
al. (1981) measured short-term metabolic rates 
of yeast and found them to be especially sensi­
tive to ethanol produced by the yeast, as com­
pared to the same amount of ethanol added. 
A resolution to this controversy is difficult be­
cause of the presence of fermentable sugars, 
which are also inhibitory, in the former exam­
ple-and in every consideration of ethanol 
toxicity and tolerance under winemaking con­
ditions. Moreover, the experimental time 
frame of the latter works may have been in­
sufficient to allow for yeast adaptation. 
M. FERMENTATION BOUQUET AND 
OTHER VOLATILE ESTERS 
In general, yeast contribution to the overall 
flavor and aroma profile of a table wine is 
minimal or at least universal during fermenta­
tion. It is most important that the yeast strain 
conduct a clean fermentation, that is, not pro­
duce any negative characters detracting from 
wine quality. However, if white or pink juice is 
clarified and fermented by ordinary wine yeasts 
at low temperature and closely protected from air contact, a special fruity aroma reminiscent 
of Juicy Fruit chewing gum is found in the 
young wine. This is called fermentation bou­
quet (Singleton et al. 1975). This is a verv 
attractive odor in young wines and could be 
quite salable in wines kept cold and purveyed 
to consumers directly at the winery or in 
nearby or closely supervised outlets. It is, how­
ever, very unstable and disappears rapidly at 
room temperature (Ramey and Ough 1980). 
This instability arises because the flavor is 
caused by volatile esters and the equilibria at 
the conditions and concentrations in wine fa­
vors hydrolysis. Our best evidence indicates 
that the special fruity odor is primarily due to 
a mixture of hexyl acetate, ethyl caproate, and 
isoamyl acetate in the ratio of about three to 
two to one (Fischer 1973). Odorwise, the hexyl 
acetate appears the most important, and 
isoamyl acetate the least imortant to the spe­
cial fermentation bouquet. There is no appar­
ent way, other than low temperature, to stabi­
lize these esters in the wines. As little as a week 
at room temperature destroys fermentation 
bouquet. Therefore, interesting though it is, 
the procedure has limited practical value as a 
way of making especially attractive wines. Nev­
ertheless, wines that have had fermentation 
bouquet remain, unless otherwise abused, as 
good as or better than their companion lot<; 
that never had fermentation bouquet, in our 
experience. 
There is a grape component to the produc­
tion of fermentation bouquet, since model 
systems and other media do not produce the 
same odor even if fermented identically. This 
is believed, at least in part, to be due to the 
production of hexyl aldehydes probably b} 
lipoxidase as the grapes are crushed. This is a 
known reaction producing grassy or newl} 
mown hay odors in crushed vegetable matter. 
This is further substantiated by the fact that 
the same type of odor and similar intensities 
are produced in all white juice musts tested 
regardless of grape variety. The yeasts reduce 
hexyl aldehyde to hexanol and then convert 
this alcohol to hexyl acetate. Hexanols are not normal products of yeast's fermentation of 
sugars. 
Lower fermentation temperature, to about 
15°C, encourages production of volatile esters 
by yeasts, but further lowering does not con­
tinue the trend (Killian and Ough 1979). This 
is thought to be predominantly a shift in the 
biosynthesis pattern by the yeasts, but preven­
tion of hydrolysis is probably also a factor. 
Several widely employed wine-yeast strains have 
given similar qualities and intensities of fer­
mentation bouquet in direct comparison, but 
differences among yeasts in ester synthesis are 
to be expected and are well known among 
various yeast genera. On the basis of adding 
back heat-treated grape solids to clarified must 
compared to nonclarified portions of the same 
must, the presence of grape solids appears to 
prevent accumulation of fermentation bou­
quet by hydrolyzing the esters as they form via 
esterase activity in the fine grape solids. The 
presence of air is known to inhibit ester pro­
duction by yeasts. 
The acetate esters of ethanol and the higher 
alcohols are often the volatiles providing the 
major aroma impact of freshly fermented white 
wines. The formation of the fermentation 
bouquet is little influenced by the cultivar 
involved or the yeast strain conducting the 
fermentation (Houtman et al. 1980; Houtman 
and Du Plessis 1981). There are, however, 
some strains that can produce significantly 
higher concentrations of the individual esters 
(Soles et al. 1982), although very high levels of 
some of these may not be desirable. Almost all 
of these esters are produced at levels well 
above their equilibrium levels that would be 
Alcohol R,-OH 
+ ------II .. ~ Ester 
Acyl·SCoA 
Alcohols: Acids: 
Ethanol Acetate Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 179 
expected from the acetic acid and alcohol 
concentrations of the wine. 
Whether or not these esters will be present 
in the wine at the time of consumption de­
pends upon the level produced, the length 
and temperature of aging pre- and postbot­
tling, and other factors affecting ester stability. 
Since acetate and ethanol are present in the 
highest concentrations during fermentation, 
esters of ethanol and acetate predominate, 
with ethyl acetate being the major species. 
Esters can arise from different sources dur­
ing yeast metabolism (Nordstrom 1962, 1963, 
1965). Esters can be produced from the alco­
holysis of acyl-CoA compounds (Figure 4-31), 
which may occur if fatty acid biosynthesis or 
degradation is interrupted in the cell and re­
generation of free Coenzyme A is needed. 
Oxidative decarboxylations involving Coen­
zyme A can also lead to ester formation (Fig­
ure 4-31). Esters can be formed from the car­
bon skeletons of amino acids. Isoamyl acetate 
and ethyl 3-methylbutyrate can be formed from 
leucine following the scheme presented in Fig­
ure 4-31. Leucine is first de aminated and de­
carboxylated yielding an aldehyde. The alde­
hyde can be either reduced to an alcohol and 
react with acetyl-CoA to yield isoamyl acetate 
or be oxidized to a monocarboxylic acid, acti­
vated and bound to Coenzyme A in an ATP­
requiring step, and then react with ethanol to 
form ethyl 3-methylbutyrate. In a general 
sense, acetyl-CoA can react with higher alco­
hols to yield the acetate esters and acyl-CoA 
compounds can react with ethanol to yield the 
ethanol esters. Small acyl chain esters are typi­
cally fruity or floral while longer acyl chain 
o 
II R,-O-C-R2 
Higher Alcohols Branched Chain Acids 
Fatty Acids Fig. 4-31. Pathway of ester formation 
from amino acids. 180 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
esters are more sweaty or soap-like. If larger 
than a total carbon number of about 12, they 
are too low in volatility to have much odor 
effect. 
The formation of the esters is influenced 
primarily by temperature as discussed above 
(Killian and Ough 1979), the amino nitrogen 
content (Vos et al. 1978; Bell et al. 1979; Ough 
and Lee 1981) of the juice, and the yeast strain 
employed (Soles et al. 1982). There is presum­
ably a secondary effect due to a requirement 
of pantothenate as it affects the formation of 
acetyl Co-A, the acetate donor for the esterifi­
cation. The early studies of Nordstrom (1962, 
1963) proposed the pathway for the acetate 
ester formation in yeast and later studies of 
the reverse TCA pathway (Oura 1973) ex­
plained the link of the amino acids via alpha­
keto glutarate and how acetyl Co-A would be 
produced (rather than consumed in the TCA 
cycle) under anaerobic fermentations condi­
tions. The correlation of ester formation with 
amino nitrogen is probably a general result 
when a more specific one relating the concen­
trations of those amino acids which are catab­
olized through the reverse TCA pathway (that 
is arginine, glutamate, and glutamine). The 
sum of these acids usually forms the largest 
fraction of the amino acids consumed by yeast 
during fermentation and that is perhaps why 
the correlations exist. 
Generally, total ester production is similar 
for strains of Saccharomyces, but the spectrum 
of esters produced can vary dramatically. 
Non-Saccharomyces or wild yeasts can produce 
significantly greater amounts of esters than 
does Saccharomyces. This is one explanation that is often given but not substantiated as to 
why natural fermentations might yield wines of 
greater complexity than inoculated ferments. 
Growth conditions also affect ester formation. 
Molecular oxygen is inhibitory to ester forma­
tion. The decreased ester production reported 
to occur at higher fermentation temperatures 
may not actually reflect decreased production 
but rather increased hydrolysis or loss of esters 
formed during fermentation (Table 4-14). 
Grape juice nutrient content may also impact 
ester levels. Ester formation is decreased in 
juices of very low nitrogen content, not sur­
prising since amino acid carbon skeletons serve 
as precursors of esters. Conditions inhibiting 
fatty acid synthesis also limit ester production, 
confirming the central role of acyl-CoA in 
ester formation. The presence of unsaturated 
fatty acids in the grape juice can suppress ester 
synthesis, so grape juice composition is like­
wise an important factor. Some of the longer 
acyl chain esters are only found upon yeast 
cell autolysis, and may be important flavor 
contributors in sparkling wine production. 
This may also be important in wines with ex­
tended yeast lees contact (sur lies) (Chapter 6). 
The physiological driving force for ester 
production remains obscure. These compo­
nents could simply be end products of various 
metabolic pathways. They could be synthesized 
primarily as a means of regeneration of Coen­
zyme A or for cofactor, NADP+, balancing. 
Since these esters serve as insect and animal 
attractants, the evolutionary selection for their 
production may have been dispersal of the 
yeast species. 
Table 4-14. The first order hydrolysis rates of acetate esters in wine. 
Ester 
Isobutyl acetate 
Isoamyl acetate 
Hexyl acetate 
2-Phenethyl acetate 
Source of data: Ramey and Ough (1980). Pre-exponen tial factor 
(Ijs) 
3530 
61000 
4380 
37.3 Activation energy 
(kllmo!) 
62.0 
69.1 
62.0 
50.2 Temperature 
coefficient 
%IC) 
9.0 
9.6 
9.0 
7.0 Yeasts are important in the overall vinous 
flavor of wines, although their contribution to 
all wines is grossly similar. That is, they confer 
the same spectrum and type of compounds to 
all wines. Early chromatographers showed that 
volative yeast products, in addition to ethanol, 
were major components of all fermented bev­
erages. 
While there certainly are variations in flavor 
components produced by yeast, we have not 
directly addressed in this section the role, if 
any, of specific yeast strains in the sensory 
character of the wines they produce. On the 
one hand, it has been said that any such 
effects are subliminal and/or short-lived -
that there is no published hard evidence to 
show any real effect of yeast strain (Kunkee 
and Bisson 1993). On the other hand, there is 
anecdotal evidence aplenty for cellar workers, 
and others, that the yeast strain is important in 
this regard. Some research with Sauvignon 
blanc grapes indicates that transformation of 
materials in the grape juice by the yeast en­
zymes produce new and highly flavored mate­
rials, such as terpenes (Dubourdieu et al. 1988) 
or mercaptans (Dubourdieu et al. 1989, 
Dubourdieu et al. 1993); and that these enzy­
matic activities are yeast strain dependent. 
Furthermore, the nutritional complement of 
the juice is suggested to play a role; those 
juices with nutritional deficiencies may place 
the yeast under some sort of stress conditions 
known to effect the formation of end products 
-and the effect could well be yeast strain 
related. It was indicated above that there is a 
great variation in the amount of nutritional 
components in grape musts in California as 
compared to those in Europe. Thus, the dis­
crepancies in the results on the effect of yeast 
strain may arise from the kinds of substrates, 
grape variety, and region, which have been 
used for these investigations (Kunkee and Vi­
las 1994). Nevertheless, until published evi­
dence is presented involving verified replicate 
fermentations and stringent sensory analyses, 
any effect of wine yeast strain on flavor is 
disputable. Also, single mutational events or 
changes in gene dosage could affect the en-Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 181 
zyme composition of the cells and impact the 
profile of compounds produced. Caution must 
be taken in extrapolation of data obtained 
with one strain in a particular juice. 
N. REFERENCES 
ACREE, T. E., E. P. SONOFF, and D. F. SPLITISTOESSER. 
1972. "Effect of yeast strain and type of sulfur 
compound on hydrogen sulfide production." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 23:6-9. 
ADAMS, A. M. 1960. "Yeasts in horticultural soils." 
In 1959-60 Report of the Horticultural Experiment 
Station and Products Laboratory, pp. 79-82. 
Toronto. Ontario Department of Agriculture. 
AGENBACH, W. A. 1977. "A study of must nitrogen 
content in relation to incomplete fermentations, 
yeast production and fermentation." Proc. S. 
Afric. Soc. Enol. Vitic. 66-87. 
AlBA, S., and M. SHODA. 1969. "Reassessment of the 
product inhibition in alcoholic fermentation."]' 
Ferm. Technol. 47:790-794. 
AlBA, S., M. SHODA, and M. NAGATANI. 1968. "Kinet­
ics of product inhibition in alcohol fermenta­
tion." Biotech. Bioeng. 10:845-864. 
AMERINE, M. A., H. W. BERG, R. E. KUNKEE, C. S. 
OUGH, V. L. SINGLETON, and A. D. WEBB. 1980. 
In Technology of Winemaking, 4th ed., Westport, 
CT, Avi Publishing Co. 
AMERINE, M. A., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1968. "Microbi­
ology of winemaking." Ann. Rev. Microbiol. 
22:323-353. 
AQUILERA, A., and T. BENITEZ. 1985. "Role of mito­
chondria in ethanol tolerance of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae." Arch. Microbiol. 142:389-392. 
AUGUSTYN, O. P. H., and J. L. F. KocK. 1989. "Dif­
ferentiation of yeast species, and strains within a 
species, by cellular fatty acid analysis. 1. Applica­
tion of an adapted technique to differentiate 
between strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae."]. Mi­
crobiol. Meth. 10:9-23. 
AYRAPM, T. 1973. "Studies on the formation of 
higher alcohols and esters by brewers' yeast." In, 
Proceedings of the Third International SPecialized 
Symposium on Yeasts, H. Suomaleinen, Ed., pp. 
31-45, OtaniemijHelsinki. 
BARTHOLOMEW, J. E., and T. MITIWER. 1950. "A 
simplified bacterial spore stain." Stain Technol. 
25:153-156. 182 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
BEAVAN, M. J., C. CHARPENTIER, and A. H. ROSE. 
1982. "Production and tolerance of ethanol in 
relation to phospholipid fatty-acyl composition 
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae N CYC 431." ]. ern. 
Microbiol.128:1447-1455. 
BECK, C., and H. K. VON MEYENBCRG. 1968. "En­
zyme pattern and aerobic growth of Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae under various degrees of glu­
cose limitation."]' Bacteriol. 96:479-486. 
BELIN, J.-M. 1972. "Recherches sur la repartition 
des levures a surface de la grappe de raisin." 
Vitis 11: 135-145. 
BELIN, J.-M., and P. HENRY. 1972. "Contribution a 
l'etude ecologique des levures dans Ie vignoble. 
Repartition des levures a la surface du pedicelle 
et de la baie de raisin." C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris 
274D:2318-2320. 
BELL, A. A., C. S. OUGH, and W. M. KLIEWER. 1979. 
"Effects on must and wine composition, rates of 
fermentation and wine quality of nitrogen fertil­
ization of Vitis vinifera var. Thompson Seedless 
grapevines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 30:124-129. 
BISSON, L. F., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1991. "Microbial 
interactions during wine production." In Mixed 
cultures in Biotechnology, J. G. Zeikus and E. A. 
Johnson, Eds., pp. 37-68. New York: McGraw­
Hill. 
BISSO;';, L. F., and J. THORNER. 1982. "Mutations in 
the PH080 gene confer permeability to 5'­
mononucleotides in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Ge­
netics 102:341-359. 
BLONDIN, B., and F. VEZINHET. 1988. "Identification 
de souches de levures oenologiques par leurs 
caryotypes obtenus en electrophorese en champs 
pluses." Rev. Fr. Denol. 28(115):7-11. 
BOUIX, M., andJ. Y. LEVEAU. 1983. "Electrophoretic 
study of the macromolecular compounds ex­
creted by yeasts: Application to differentiation 
between strains of the same species." Biotechnol. 
Bioeng. 25: 133- 142. 
BOULTON, R. 1979. "A kinetic model for the control 
of wine fermentations." Biotechnol. Bioeng. Symp. 
Series, No.9:167-177. 
BOULTON, R. 1980. "Prediction of fermentation be­
havior by a kinetic model." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
31:40-45. 
BRENDEL, M., W. W. FATH, and W. LASKOWSKI. 1975. 
"Isolation and characterization of mutants of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae able to grow after inhibi­
tion of DTMP synthesis." Meth. Cell Bio!. 
11:287-294. BROIDI, S. W., S. G. OLIVER, D. E. F. HARRISON, and 
R. C. RiGHELATO. 1981. "Ethanol inhibition of 
yeast growth and fermentation: differences in 
the magnitude and complexity of the effect.'· 
Appl. Microbiol. Biotech. 11:151-155. 
BUSTUKIA, A., and R. LAGC'IAS. 1986. "Catabolite 
inactivation of the glucose transport system in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. Gen. Micro. 
132:379-385. 
CA.'\!TAGREL, R., P. SYMONDS, and J. CARLES. 1982. 
"Composition en acides amines du mOllt en 
fonction du cepage et de la technologie et son 
influence sur la qualite du vin." Sci. Aliment. 
2:109-142. 
CARDOSO, H., and C. LE.A..O. 1992. "Mechanism~ 
underlying the low and high euthalpy death 
induced by short-chair monocarboxylic acids and 
ethanol in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Micro. Biotech. 
38:388-392. 
CARLE, G. F., M. FRANK, and M. V. OLSON. 1986. 
"Electrophoretic separation of large DNA 
molecules by periodic inversion of the electric 
field." Science 232:65-68. 
CARTWRIGHT, C. P., J.-R. JCROSZEK, M. J. BEAVAN, F. 
M. S. RUBY, S. M. F. DEMoRIAS, and A. H. ROSE. 
1986. "Ethanol dissipates the proton-motive 
force across the plasma membrane of Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae."]. Gen. Microbiol. 132:369-377. 
CARTWRIGHT, C. P., F. J. VEAZEY, and A. H. ROSE. 
1987. "Effect of ethanol on activity of the plasma 
membrane ATPase in and accumulation of 
glycine by Saccharomyces cerevisiae."]. Gen. Micro­
biol. 133:857-865. 
CASEY, G. P., C. A. MAG:-':us, and W. M. INGLE DEW. 
1984. "High-gravity brewing: effects of nutrition 
on yeast composition fermentative ability and 
alcohol production." Appl. Env. Micrbiol 
48:639-646. 
CASTELLI, T. 1957. "Climate and agents of wine 
fermentation." Am.]. Enol. 8: 149-156. 
CASTOR, J. G. B., and T. E. ARCHER. 1956. "Amino 
acids in must and wines, proline, serine and 
threonine." Am.]. Enol. 7:19-25. 
CHAPMA.'\!, C., and W. BARTLEY. 1968. "The kinetics 
of enzyme changes in yeast under conditions 
that cause the loss of mitochondria." Biochem.]. 
107:455-465. 
CHATONNET, P., D. DUBOURDIEU, J.-N. BOIDRON, and 
V. LAVIGNE. 1993. "Synthesis of volatile phenols 
by Saccharomyces cerevisiae in wines." ]. Sci. Food 
Agric.62:191-202. CHEREST, H., and Y. SURDIN-KERjAN. 1992. "Genetic 
analysis of a new mutation conferring cysteine 
anxotrophy in Saccharomyces cereuisiae: Updating 
of the sulfure metabolism pathway." Genetics 
130:51-58. 
CHIN, H.-W. 1989. "Relationship between the fer­
mentation performances of various yeast strains 
and their alcohol dehydrogensase activities." 
M.S. thesis, Davis, CA: University of California. 
CHU, G., D. VOLLRATH, and R W. DAVIS. 1986. 
"Separation of large DNA molecules by 
contour-clamped homogeneous electric fields." 
Science 234:1582-1585. 
CIRILLO, V. P. 1968. "Relationship between sugar 
structure and competition for the sugar trans­
port system in baker's yeast." ]. Bacteriol. 
95:603-611. 
COOPER, T. G. 1982a. "Nitrogen metabolism in Sac­
charomyces cereuisiae." In The Molecular Biology oj 
the Yeast Saccharomyces: Metabolism and Gene Ex­
pression, J. N. Strathern, E. W. Jones, and J. R 
Broach, Eds., pp. 39-100. Cold Spring Harbor, 
New York: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. 
COOPER, T. G. 1982b. "Transport in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae." In The Molecular Biology oj the Yeast 
Saccharomyces: Metabolism and Gene Expression, J. 
N. Strathern, E. W.Jones, and]. R Broach, Eds., 
pp. 399-462. Cold Spring Harbor, New York: 
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. 
COOPER, T. G., and R SUMRADA. 1975. "Urea trans­
port in Saccharomyces cereuisiae." ]. Bacteriol. 
121:571-576. 
COTTRELL, M., B. C. VILjOEN,]. L. F. KOCK, and P. 
M. LATEGAN. 1986. "The long-chain fatty acid 
compositions of species representing the genera 
Saccharomyces, Schwanniomyces, and Lipomyces." ]. 
Gen. Microbiol. 132:2401-2403. 
CRABTREE, H. G. 1929. "Observations on carbohy­
drate metabolism of tumors." Biochem. ]. 
23:536-545. 
DE DEKEN, R H. 1966. "The Crabtree effect: a 
regulatory system in yeast." ]. Gen. Microbiol. 
44:129-156. 
DE MORA, S.]., R ESCHENBRUCH, S.]. KNOWLES, and 
D. J. SPED DING. 1986. "The formation of dimethyl 
sulfide during fermentation using a wine yeast." 
Food Microbiol. 3:27-32. 
DEGRE, R, D. Y. THOMAS,]. AsH, K MAILHIOT, A. 
MORIN, and C. DUBORD. 1989. "Wine yeast strains 
identification." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 40:309-315. Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 183 
DELFlNI, D., and C. PARVEX. 1989. "Study on pH 
and total acidity variations during alcoholic fer­
mentation. Importance of the ammoniacal salt 
added." Riv. Vitic. Enol. 42:43-56. 
DELTEIL, D., and T. AIZAC. 1989. "Yeast inoculation 
techniques with a 'marked' yeast strain." Pract. 
Winery Vineyard, May /June:43-47. 
DENIS, C. L., M. CIRIACY, and E. T. YOUNG. 1983. 
"MRNA levels for the fermentative alcohol de­
hydrogenase of Saccharomyces cereuisiae decrease 
upon growth on a non-fermentable carbon 
source." ]. Biol. Chem. 258:1165-1171. 
DICKINSON, ]. R, and I. W. DAWES. 1992. "The 
catabolism of branch-chain amino acids occurs 
via 2-oxoacid dehydrogenase in Saccharomyces 
cereuisiae." ]. Gen. Microbiol. 138:2029-2033. 
DICKINSON, ]. R, and V. NORTE. 1993. "A study of 
branched-chain amino acid aminotransferase 
and isolation of mutations affecting the 
catabolism of branched-chain amino acid in Sac­
charomyces cereuisiae." FEBS 326:29-32. 
DOMBECK, K M., and L. O. INGRAM. 1986. "Mag­
nesium limitation and its role in apparent toxic­
ity of ethanol during yeast fermentation." Appl. 
Environ. Microbiol. 52:975-981. 
DRYSDALE, G. S., and G. H. FLEET. 1989. "The effect 
of acetic acid bacteria upon the growth and 
metabolism of yeasts during the fermentation of 
grape juice." ]. App. Bacteriol. 67:471-481. 
DUBOIS, E., and M. GRENSON. 1979. 
"Methylamine/ammonia uptake systems in Sac­
charomyces cereuisiae: Multiplicity and regulation." 
Molec. Gen. Genetics 175:67-76. 
DUBOS, R 1988. Pasteur and Modern Science. Madi­
son, WI: Science Tech Publishers. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., P. DARRIET, and P. CHATONNET. 
1989. "Intervention of enzymatic systems of Sac­
charomyces cereuisiae on some precursors of grape 
aroma." Paper presented at XIIth International 
Symposium Specialized on Yeast, September 
18-221989 at Universite Catholique de Louvain, 
Belgium. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., P. DARRIET, and V. LAVIGNE. 1993. 
"Investigations on the varietal aroma of Sauvi­
gnon wines." 10th International Oenological Sympo­
sium, Montreux, May 3-5 1993, pp. 258-267. 
Breisach: Internationale Interessengemeinschaft 
fur Kellertechnik u. Betriebsfuhrung. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., P. DARRIET, C. OLLMER, ].-N. 
BOIDRON, and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1988. "Role 184 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
de la levure Saccharomyces cerevisiae dans l'hy­
rolyse enzymatique des heterosides terpeniques 
du jus de raisin." C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris Ser III 
306:489-493. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., A. SOKOL,J. ZUCCA, P. THALOUARN, 
A. DATTEE, and M. AIGLE. 1987. "Identification 
des souches de levures isolees de vins par analyse 
de leur ADN mitochondrial." Conn. Vigne Vin 
21:267-278. 
DUNTZE, W., D. NEUMANN, J. M. GANCEDO, W. 
ATZPODIEN, and H. HOLZER. 1969. "Studies on 
the regulation and localization of the glyoxylate 
cycle enzymes in Saccharomyces cereuisiae." Eur.]. 
Biochem. 10:83-89. 
EGBOSIMBA, E. E., E. LINUS, C. OKAFOR, and J. C. 
SLAUGHTER. 1988. "Control of ammonia uptake 
from malt extract medium by Saccharomyces cere­
visiae." ]. Inst. Brew. 94:249-252. 
EGBOSIMBA, E. E., andJ. C. SLAUGHTER. 1987. "The 
influence of ammonium permease activity and 
carbon source on the uptake of ammonium from 
simple defined media by Saccharomyces cereuisiae." 
]. Gen. Micro. 133:375-379. 
EL HALIOU, N., D. PICQUE, and G. CORRIEU. 1987. 
"Mesures physiques permettant Ie suivi bi­
ologique de la fermentation alcoolique en 
oenologie." Sci. Alim. 7:241-265. 
ELSKENS, M. T., C. J. JASPERS, and M. J. PENNINCKX. 
1991. "Glutathione as an endogenous sulphur 
source in the yeast Saccharomyces cereuisiae." ]. 
Gen. Micro. 137:637-644. 
ESCHENBRUCH, R. 1978. "Sulphide formation by wine 
yeasts." Proc. 5th Inti. Oenol. Symp, pp. 267-273. 
Auckland, New Zealand. 
ESCHENBRUCH, R., and P. BONISH. 1976. "Produc­
tion of sulphite and sulphide by low- and high­
sulphite forming yeasts." Arch. Microbiol. 
107:299-302. 
ESCHENBRUCH, R., S. J. DE MORA, S. J. KNOWLES, W. 
K. LEONARD, T. FORRESTER, AND D. J. SPEDDING. 
1986. "The formation of volatile sulphur com­
pounds in unclarified grape juice." Vitis 
25:53-57. 
ESPOSITO, R. E., and S. KLAPHOLZ. 1981. "Meiosis 
and ascospore development." In The Molecular 
Biology of the Yeast Saccharomyces, Life Cycle and 
Inheritance, J. N. Strathern, E. W. Jones, J. R. 
Broach, Eds., pp. 211-287. Cold Spring Harbor, 
New York: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. FAMUYIWA, O. 0., and C. S. OUGH. 1991. "Modifica­
tion of acid urease activity by fluoride ions and 
malic acid in wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 42:79-80. 
FERRERAS, J. M., R. IGLESIAS, and T. GIRBES. 1989. 
"Effect of the chronic ethanol action on the 
activity on the general amino-acid permease from 
Saccharomyces cereuisiae var. ellipsoideus." Biochim. 
Biophys. Acta. 979:375-377. 
FISCHER, G. 1973. "Studies on fermentation bou­
quet in white table wines." M.S. thesis, Davis. 
CA: University of California. 
GARDINER, K., and D. PATTERSON. 1988. "Transverse 
alternating electrophoresis." Nature 331: 
371-372. 
GARRETT,J. M. 1989. "Characterization of AAT1: A 
gene involved in the regulation of amino acid 
transport in Saccharomyces cereuisiae." ]. Gen. Mi­
cro. 135:2429-2437. 
GIUDICI, P., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1994. "The effect of 
nitrogen deficiency and sulfur-containing amino 
acids on the reduction of sulfate to hydrogen 
sulfide by wine yeast." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
45:107-112. 
GOLDSTEIN, D. 1987. "Ethanol-induced adaptation 
in biological membranes." Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 
492:103:111. 
GONIAK, O. J., and A. C. NOBLE. 1987. "SensoI"} 
study of selected volatile sulfur compounds in 
white wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:223-227. 
GRENSON, M. 1969. "The utilization of exogenous 
pyrimidines and the recycling ofuridine-5'-phos­
phate derivatives in Saccharomyces cereuisiae, as 
studied by means of mutants affected in pyrimi­
dine uptake and metabolism." Euro.]. Biochem. 
11 :249-260. 
GRENSON, M., M. MOUSSET, J. M. WIAME, and J. 
BECHET. 1966. "Multiplicity of the amino acid 
permeases in Saccharomyces cereuisiae. I. Evidence 
for a specific arginine-transporting system." 
Biochim. Biophys. Acta 127:325-338. 
GUBLER, W. D. 1992. "Grape powdery mildew." 
Practical Winery and Vineyard. Jan/Feb:12-16. 
GUYMON, J. F. 1972. "Higher alcohols in beverage 
brandy: Feasibility of control of levels." Wines 
and Vines 53:37-40. 
GUYMON, J. F., and J. E. HEITZ. 1952. "The fuse 1 oil 
content of California wines." Food Technol. 
6:359-362. 
GUYMON, J. F., J. L. INGRAHAM, and E. A. CROWELL. 
1961. "The formation of n-propyl alcohol by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 
95:163-168. 
HALLET, J. N., B. CRANEGUY, J. ZUCCA, and A. 
POCLARD. 1988. "Caracterisation de differentes 
souches industrielles de levures oenologiques par 
les profils de restriction de leur ADN mitochon­
drial." Prog. Agric. Vitic. 105:328-333. 
HAMMOl\:D, J. R. M. 1993. "Brewer's yeasts." In The 
Yeasts, 2nd ed., Vol. 5, A. H. Rose and J. S. 
Harrison, Eds., pp. 7-67. London: Academic 
Press. 
HA'.N1<SWORTH, D. L., B. C. SUTTOl\:, and G. C. 
AINsWORTH. 1983. Ainsworth & Bisfly s Dictionary 
of the Fungi (Including the Lichens), 7th ed. Kew, 
Surrey:Commonwealth Mycological Institute. 
HENRY, S. A. 1982. "The membrane lipids of yeast: 
biochemical and genetic studies." In The Molecu­
lar Biology of the Yeast Saccharomyces: Metabolism 
and Gene Expression, J. N. Stratern, E. N. jones, 
and J. R. Broach, eds., pp. 101 -158. Cold Spring 
Harbor, New York: Cold Spring Harbor Labora­
tory. 
HENSCHKE P. A., and V. JIRA,,!EK. 1991. "Hydrogen 
sulfide formation during fermentation: Effects of 
nitrogen composition in model grape musts." In 
International Nitrogen Symposium on Grapes and 
Wine, J. M. Rantz, ed. Davis, CA: American Soci­
ety for Enology and Viticulture. 
HEWITSON, D. 1993. "Relationships between ammo­
nium ion availability and hydrogen sulfide for­
mation by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." M.S. the­
sis, Davis, CA: University of California. 
HOLZER, H. 1961. "Regulation of carbohydrate 
metabolism by enzyme competition." Cold Spring 
Harbor Sym. Quan. Bioi. 26:277-288. 
HORAK, J. 1986. "Amino acid transport in eucary­
otic microorganisms." Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 
864:223-256. 
HOLTMAN, A. C., and C. S. Dc PLESSIS. 1981. "The 
effect of juice clarity and several conditions pro­
moting yeast growth or fermentation rate, the 
production of aroma components and wine 
quality." S. Afric.]. Enol. Vitic. 2:71-81. 
HOCTMM, A. c., J. MARAIS, and C. S. Du PLESSIS. 
1980. "The possibilities of applying present-day 
knowledge of wine aroma components: Influ­
ence of several juice factors on fermentation 
rate and ester production during fermentation." 
S. Afric.]. Enol. Vitic. 1:27-33. Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 185 
ILAGAN, R. D. 1979. "Studies on the Sporulation of 
Dekkera." M.S. thesis, Davis, CA: University of 
California. 
INGLEDEW, W. M. 1993. "Yeasts for production of 
fuel ethanol." In, The Yeasts, 2nd ed., vol. 5, A. 
H. Rose and J. S. Harrison, Eds. pp. 245-291. 
London: Academic Press. 
INGRAHAM, J. L., and J. F. GCYMON. 1960. "The 
formation of higher aliphatic alcohols by mutant 
strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Arch. Biochem. 
Biophys. 88:157-166. 
INGRA\{, L. 0., and T. M. BUTTKE. 1984. "Effects of 
alcohol on microorganisms." Adv. Microbial 
Physiol. 25:253-300. 
jAZWINSKI, S. M. 1993. "Genes of youth: Genetics of 
aging in baker's yeast." ASM News 59:172-178. 
JIME]\'EZ, J., and N. VA."! UDEN. 1985. "Use of extra­
cellular acidification for the rapid testing of al­
cohol tolerance in yeast." Biotech. Bioeng. 
27: 1596-1598. 
JIRANEK v., and P. A. HENSCHKE. 1991. "Assimilable 
nitrogen: Regulator of hydrogen sulfide produc­
tion during fermentation." Aust. Grape. & Wine 
(325):27-30. 
jIRA"!EK, V., P. U"lGRIDGE, and P. A. HENSCHKE. 
1991. "Yeast nitrogen demand: Selection crite­
rion for wine yeasts for fermenting low nitrogen 
musts." pp. 266-269. In Proceedings of the Interna­
tional Symposium on Nitrogen in Grapes and Wine, 
Davis, CA: American Society for Enology and 
Viticulture. 
jOHNSTOl\:, J. 1983. "Substrate Preference in Wine 
Yeast." M.S. thesis, Davis, CA: University of Cali­
fornia. 
JONES, M., and J. S. PIERCE. 1964. "Adsorption of 
amino acids from wort by yeasts." ]. Inst. Brewing 
70:307-315. 
JONES, R. S., and C. S. OUGH. 1985. "Variations in 
the percent ethanol v Iv per °Brix conversions of 
wines from different climatic regions." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 36:268-270. 
JOST, P., and A. PIENDL. 1975. "Technological in­
fluences on the formation of acetate during fer­
mentation."]' Am. Soc. Brew. Chem. 34:31-37. 
jUROSZEK, J. R., O. RAIMBAULT, M. FWILLAT, and C. 
CHARPENTIER. 1987. "A new method for determi­
nation of ethanol tolerance in vinification yeast: 
Measurement of glucose-induced proton move­
ments." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:336-341. 186 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
KALMOKOFF, M. L., and W. M. INGLEDEW. 1985. 
"Evaluation of ethanol tolerance in selected Sac­
charomyces strains." J. Am. Soc. Brew. Chem. 
43:189-196. 
KILLIAN E., and C. S. OUGH. 1979. "Fermentation 
esters-Formation and retention as affected by 
fermentation temperature." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
30:301-305. 
KIRSOP, B. H. 1982. "Developments in beer fermen­
tation." Top. Enzyme. Ferment. Biotechnol. 
6:79-13l. 
KITAMoTo, K, K YOSHIZAWA, Y. OHSt:MI, and Y. 
ANRAKu. 1988. "Dynamic aspects of vacuolar and 
cytosolic amino acid pools of Saccharomyces cere­
visiae." J. Bacteriol. 170:2683-2686. 
KODAMA, K 1993. "Sake-brewing yeasts." In The 
Yeasts, 2nd ed., Vol. 5, A. H. Rose and J. S. 
Harrison, Eds., pp. 129-168. London: Academic 
Press. 
KOSHINSKY, H. A., R. H. COSBY, and G. G. KHACHA­
TOURIANS. 1992. "Effects of T-2 toxin on ethanol 
production by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Biotech. 
App. Biochem. 16:275-286. 
KoTYK, A. 1967. "Properties of the sugar carrier in 
baker's yeast. II. Specificity of transport." Folia 
Microbiol.12:121-3l. 
KRAus, J. K, G. REED, and J. C. VILLETTAZ. 1983. 
"Levures seches actives de vinification 1 re partie: 
fabrication et caracteristiques." Conn. Vigne Vin. 
17:93-103. 
KRAus, J. K, G. REED, and J. C. VILLETTAZ. 1984. 
"Levures seches actives de vinification 2e partie 
et fin: utilisation et evaluation." Conn. Vigne Vin. 
18:1-26. 
KREGER-VA.'\! RIJ, N. J. W. 1984. The Yeasts, A Taxo­
nomic Study. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Pub­
lishers. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1984. "Selection and modification of 
yeasts and lactic acid bacteria for wine fermenta­
tion." Food Microbiol. 1 :315-332. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1990. "Some relationships between 
the strain of wine yeast and its tolerance to 
ethanol or to other products of alcoholic fer­
mentation." In Actualities OEnologiques 89, P. 
Ribereau-Gayon and A. Lonvaud, Eds., pp. 
238-242. Paris: Dunod. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1991. "Relationship between nitro­
gen content of must and sluggish fermentation." 
In International Nitrogen Symposium on Grapes and Wine, J. M. Rantz, Ed., pp. 148-155. Davis, CA: 
American Society for Enology and Viticulture. 
KUNKEE, R. E., and M. A. AMERINE. 1968. "Sugar 
and alcohol stabilization of yeast in sweet wine," 
Appl. Microbiol. 16:1067-1075. 
KUNKEE, R. E., and M. A. AMERINE. 1970. "Yeasts in 
wine-making." In The Yeasts, Vol. 3, A. H. Rose, 
and J. S. Harrison, Eds., pp. 50-71. London: 
Academic Press. 
KUNKEE, R. E., and L. F. BISSON. 1993. "Wine-mak­
ing yeasts." In The Yeasts, 2nd ed., Vol. 5, A. H. 
Rose and J. S. Harrison, Eds., pp. 69-127. Lon­
don: Academic Press. 
KUNKEE, R. E., J. F. GUYMON, and E. A. CROWELL. 
1966. "Formation ofn-propyl alcohol by cell-free 
extracts of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." J. Inst. Brew. 
72:530-536. 
KUNKEE, R. E., J. F. GUYMON, and E. A. CROWELL. 
1972. "Studies on control of higher alcohol for­
mation by yeasts through metabolic inhibition." 
1st Specialized International Symposium on Yeasts, A. 
Kockova-Kratochivilova and E. Minarik. Eds., 
Bratislava, Slovakia: Publishing House of the Slo­
vak Academy of Sciences. 
KUNKEE, R. E., S. R. SNOW, and C. ROt:s. 1983. 
"Method for reducing fuse I oil in alcoholic bev­
erages and yeast strain useful in that method." 
U.S. Patent 4,374,859. 
KUNKEE, R. E., and M. R. VILAS. 1994. "Toward a 
better understanding of the relationship be­
tween yeast strain and flavor production during 
vinifications: Flavor effects in vinifications of a 
non distinct variety of grapes by several strains of 
wine yeast." Vitic. Enol. Sci. 49:46-50. 
KURTZMAN, C. P. 1973. "Formation of hyphae and 
chlamydospores by Cryptococcus laurentii." My­
cologia 65:388-395. 
LAFON-LAFOURCADE, S., F. LARUE, P. BcicHoT, and P. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1977. "Steroids survival factors 
of yeasts during the process of alcoholic fermen­
tation of grape must." Compt. Rend. Acad. Sci. 
284D, 1939-1942. 
LAFON-LAFOURCADE, S., F. LARUE, and P. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1979. "Evidence for the exis­
tence of survival factors as an explanation for 
some peculiarities of yeast growth especially in 
grape must of high sugar concentration." Appl. 
Environ. Microbiol. 38:1069-1073. 
LAGUNAS, R. 1979. "Energetic irrelevance of aero­
biosis for S. cerevisiae growing on sugars." Mol. 
Cell. Biochem. 27, 139-148. LAGUNAS, R 1981. "Is Saccharomyces cerevisiae a typi­
cal facultative 'anaerobe?'" Trends Biochem. Sci 
(Pers. Ed) 6:201-203. 
LAGUNAS, R, C. DOMINGUEZ, A BUSTURIA, and M. ]. 
SAEZ. 1982. "Mechanisms of appearance of the 
Pasteur effect in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Inactiva­
tion of the sugar transport systems." ]. Bacteriol. 
152:19-25. 
LARGE, P.]. 1986. "Degradation of organic nitrogen 
compounds by yeasts." Yeast 2:1-34. 
LEAo, C., and N. VAN UDEN. 1984a. "Effect of 
ethanol and other alkanols on the general amino 
acid permease of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. " Biotech. 
Bioeng. 26:403-405. 
LEAo, C., and N. VAN UDEN. 1984b. "Effects of 
ethanol and other alkanols on passive proton 
influx in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Biochim. Biophys. Acta 774:43-48. 
LEAo, C., and N. VAN UDEN. 1985. "Effects of ethanol 
and other alkanols on the temperature relations 
of glucose transport and fermentation in Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae." App. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 
22:359-363. 
LEE. S. 0., and R E. KUNKEE. 1988. "Relationship 
between yeast strain and production or uptake 
of medium chain fatty acids during fermenta­
tion." 1988 Technical Abstracts, p. 10. Annual 
Meeting, American Society for Enology and Viti­
culture, June 22-24 1988, Reno, Nevada. 
LEWIS, M. ]., and H. ]. PHAFF. 1964. "Release of 
nitrogenous substances by brewer's yeast. III. 
Shock excretion of amino acids." ]. Bacteriol. 
87:1390-1396. 
LODDER,]. 1970. The Yeasts,A Taxonomic Study. Ams­
terdam: North-Holland Publishing Company. 
LODDER,]., and N.]. W. KREGER-VAN RIJ. 1952. The 
Yeasts A Taxonomic Study. Amsterdam: North-Hol­
land Publishing Company. 
MAcRoSTIE, S. W. 1974. "Electrode measurement of 
hydrogen sulfide in wine." M.S. thesis, Davis, 
CA: University of California. 
MAev, ]., and M. W. MILLER. 1983. "Anaerobic 
growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae in the absence 
of oleic acid and ergosterol?" Arch. Microbiol. 
134:64-67. 
MALFEITo-FERREIRA, M.,]. P. MILLER-GUERRA, and V. 
LOUREIRO. 1990. "Proton extrusion as an indica­
tor of the adaptive state of yeast starters for the 
continuous production of sparkling wines." Am. 
]. Enol. Vitic. 41:219-222. Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 187 
MALFEITo-FERREIRA, M., A ST. AUBYN, and V. 
LOUREIRO. 1989. "Rapid testing to differentiate 
between fermenting and spoilage yeasts in wine." 
Yeast 5 (Spec. Issue), S47-S51. 
MARsH, G. L. 1958. "Alcohol yield: Factors and 
methods." Am.]. Enol. 9:53-58. 
MARTINI, A, and A V. MARTINI. 1990. "Grape must 
fermentation-past and present." In Yeast Tech­
nology,J. F. T. Spencer and D. M. Spencer, Eds., 
pp. 105-123. Berlin: Springer-Verlag. 
MASSANTINI, R, and R E. KUNKEE. 1989. "Influence 
of temperature on alcohol dehydrogenase in 
yeast during vinification." Yeast 5:S201-S205. 
MCCANN,]., E. CHOI, E. YAMASAKI, and B. N. AMES. 
1975. "Detection of carcinogens as mutagens in 
the Salmonella/microsome test: assay of 300 
chemicals." Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA. 
72:5135-5139. 
MCCUSKER, ]. H., D. S. PERLIN, and]. E. HABER. 
1987. "Pleiotropic plasma membrane ATPase 
mutations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Molec. Cell. 
Biol. 7:4082-4088. 
MESSENGUY, F. 1987. "Multiplicity of regulatory 
mechanisms controlling amino acid biosynthesis 
in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. " Microbiol. Sciences 
4:150-153. 
MIDDLEHOVEN, W.]. 1964. "The pathway of argi­
nine breakdown in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Biochim. Biophys. Acta 93:650-652. 
MIDDLEHOVEN, W.].,]. VAN EUK, R VAN RENESSE, and 
]. M. BLIJHAM. 1978. "A mutant of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae lacking catabolic NAD +-specific gluta­
mate dehydrogenase." Antonie van Leeuwen. 
44:311-320. 
MIRVISH, S. S. 1968. "The carcinogenic action and 
metabolism of urethan and N-hydroxyurethan." 
Adv. Cancer Res. 11: 1-42. 
MOLAN, P. S., M. EDWARDS, and R ESCHENBRUCH. 
1982. "Foaming in wine making. II: Separation 
and partial characterization of foam inducing 
proteins excreted by pure culture wine yeasts." 
Eur.J. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 16:110-113. 
MONK, P. R 1986. "Formation, utilization and ex­
cretion of hydrogen sulphide by wine yeast." 
Aust. N.Z. Wine Ind.J. 1:10-16. 
MONK, P. R, D. HOOK, and B. M. FREEMAN. 1986. 
"Amino acid metabolism by yeasts." Proceedings 
of the Sixth Australian Wine Industry Technical Con­
ference, pp. 129- 133. 188 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
MONOD,]. 1949. "The growth of bacterial cultures." 
Ann. Rev. Microbiol. 3: 371-394. 
MONTEIRO, F. F., and L. F. BISSON. 1991a. "Amino 
acid utilization and urea formation during vini­
fication." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 42:199-208. 
MONTEIRO, F. F., and L. F. BISSON. 1991b. "Biologi­
cal assay of nitrogen content of grape juice and 
prediction of sluggish fermentations." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitie. 42:47-57. 
MONTEIRO, F. F., and L. F. BISSON. 1992a. "Nitrogen 
supplementation of grape juice. I. Effect on 
amino acid utilization during fermentation." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 43: 1-10. 
MONTEIRO, F. F., and L. F. BISSON. 1992b. "Nitro­
gen supplementation of grape juice. II. Effect on 
amino acid and urea release following fermenta­
tion." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 43:11-17. 
MONTEIRO, F. F., and L. F. BISSON. 1992c. "Utiliza­
tion of adenine by yeast during grape juice fer­
mentation and investigation of the possible role 
of adenine as a precursor of urea." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitie.43:18-22. 
MONTEIRO, F. F., E. K. TROUSDALE, and L. F. BISSON. 
1989. "Ethyl carbamate formation in wine: Use 
of radioactively labeled precursors to demon­
strate the involvement of urea." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitie. 40: 1-8. 
MULLER-SPATH, V. H., N. MOSCHTERT, and G. 
SCHAFER. 1978. "Beobachtungen bei der wein­
bereitung." Die Weinwirt. 114: 1084-1089. 
MULLER-THURGAU, H. 1889. "Ueber die Vergahrung 
des traubenmostes durch zugesetzte Hefe." 
Weinbau Weinhandel 7:477-478. 
NABAIs, R. C., I. SA-CORREIA, C. A VIEGAS, and]. M. 
NOVAIs. 1988. "Influence of calcium ion on 
ethanol fermentation by yeasts." Appl. Environ. 
Microbiol. 54:2439-2446. 
NAGODAWITHANA, T. W., and K. H. STEINKRAUS. 1976. 
"Influence of the rate of ethanol production 
and accumulation on the viability of Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae in rapid fermentation." Appl. 
Envir. Microbiol. 31:158-162. 
NAVARRO,]. M., and G. DURAND. 1978. "Alcoholic 
fermentation: Effect of temperature on ethanol 
accumulation in yeast cells." Ann. Microbiol. 
129B:215-224. 
NESS, F., F. LAVALLEE, D. DUBOURDIEU, M. AiGLE, 
and L. DULAu. 1993. "Identification of yeast 
strains using the polymerase chain reaction." ]. 
Sci. Food Agrie. 62:89-94. NEUBERG, C. 1946. "The biochemistry of yeast.'· 
Ann. Rev. Bioehem. 15:435-474. 
NOBLE, A. C., and G. F. BURSICK. 1984. "The contri­
bution of glycerol to perceived viscosity and 
sweetness in white wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 
35:110-112. 
NORDSTROM, K. 1962. "Formation of ethyl acetate 
in fermentation with brewer's yeast. III. Partici­
pation of coenzyme A." ]. Inst. Brew. 68:398-407. 
NORDSTROM, K. 1963. "Formation of ethyl acetate 
in fermentation with brewer's yeast. lV. 
Metabolism of acetyl-coenzyme A" ]. Inst. Brew. 
69: 142-153. 
NORDSTROM, K. 1965. "Possible control of volatile 
ester formation in brewing." Proe. Euro. Brew. 
Conv. 10th Congress, Stockholm, Sweden, pp. 
195-208. 
NovAK, M., P. STREHAIANO, M_ MORENO, and G. 
CoMA. 1981. "Alcoholic fermentation: On the 
inhibitory effect of ethanol." Biotech. Bioeng. 
23:201-211. 
NYKANEN, L. 1986. "Formation and occurrence of 
flavor compounds in wine and distilled alcoholic 
beverages." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 37:86-96. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A AMERINE. 1963. "Regional, 
varietal and type influences on the degree Brix 
and alcohol relationship of grapes musts and 
wines." Hilgardia 34:585-599. 
OUGH, C. S., and A. A BELL. 1980. "Effects of 
nitrogen fertilization of grapevines on amino 
acid metabolism and higher-alcohol formation 
during grape juice fermentation." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitie. 31:12-123. 
OUGH, C. S., E. A. CROWELL, and R. B. GUTLOVE. 
1988a. "Carbamyl compounds reactions with 
ethanol." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 39:239-242. 
OUGH, C. S., E. A. CROWELL, and L. A MOONEY. 
1988b. "Formation of ethyl carbamate precur­
sors during grape juice (Chardonnay) fermenta­
tion. I. Effects of fortification on intracellular 
and extracellular precursors." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 
39:243-249. 
OUGH, C. S., M. DAVENPORT, and K. JOSEPH. 1989. 
"Effects of certain vitamins on growth and fer­
mentation rate of several commercial active dry 
wine yeasts." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 40:208-213. 
OUGH, C. S., Z. HUANG, D. AN, and D. STEVENS. 
1991. "Amino acid uptake by four commercial 
yeasts at two different temperatures of growth and fermentation: Effects on urea excretion and 
reabsorption." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 42:26-40. 
OUGH, C. S., and T. H. LEE. 1981. "Effect of vine­
yard nitrogen fertilization level on the formation 
of some fermentation esters." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
32:125-127. 
OUGH, C. S., D. STEVENS, T. SENDOVSKI, Z. HUANG, 
and D. AN. 1990. "Factors contributing to urea 
formation in commercially fermented wines." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:68-73. 
OURA, E. 1973. "Some aspects of the growth of 
baker's yeast." Proc. 3rd Intl. Spec. Symp. on Yeast. 
Helsinki, Finland, Part II, p. 215-230. 
PAMMENT, N. B. 1989. "Overall kinetics and mathe­
matical modeling of ethanol inhibition in yeasts." 
In, Alcohol Toxicity in Yeast and Bacteria, N. van 
Uden, Ed., pp. 1-75. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. 
PARK, S. K. 1993. "Factors affecting formation of 
volatile sulfur compounds in wine." PhD thesis, 
Davis, CA: University of California. 
PARLEBAS, N., and M. R. CHEVALLIER. 1977. "Genetic 
studies of the pyrimidine perm eases from Sac­
charomyces cerevisiae: Lack of intragenic comple­
mentation." Molec. Gen. Genetics 154:199-202. 
PASTEUR, L. 1855. "Memoire sur l'alcool amylique." 
Compt. Rend. 41:296-300. 
PENA, A., G. CiNCO, A. GoMEZ-PUYON, and M. TUENA. 
1972. "Effect of the pH of the incubation 
medium on glycolysis and respiration in Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 
153:413-425. 
PENA, A., J. P. PARDO, and J. RAMIREZ. 1987. "Early 
metabolic effects and mechanism of ammonium 
ion transport in yeast." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 
253:431-438. 
PETERING,]. E., P. A. HENSCHKE, and P. LANGRIDGE. 
1991. "The Escherichia coli B-glucuronidase gene 
as a marker for Saccharomyces yeast strain identi­
fication." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 42:6-12. 
PHAFF, H.]., M. N. MILLER, and E. M. MRAK. 1978. 
The Life of Yeasts, 2nd ed. Cambridge, MA: Har­
vard University Press. 
PIERCE, ]. S. 1970. "Institute of brewing: Analysis 
committee measurement of yeast viability." Inst. 
Brew]. London. 76:442-443. 
PIERCE,]. S. 1982. "The Margaret Jones Memorial 
Lecture: Amino acids in malting and brewing." 
]. Inst. Brewing 88:228-233. Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 189 
POLAKIS, E. S., and W. BARTLEY. 1965. "Changes in 
the enzyme activities of Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
during aerobic growth on different carbon 
sources." Biochem.]. 97:284-297. 
POLAKIS, E. S., W. BARTLEY, and G. A. MEEK. 1965. 
"Changes in the respiratory enzymes during the 
aerobic growth of yeast on different carbon 
sources." Biochem]. 97:298-302. 
POSTMA, E., C. VERDUYN, W. A. SCHEFFERS, and]. P. 
VAN DIJKEN. 1989. "Enzymatic analysis of the 
Crabtree effect in glucose-limited chemostat cul­
tures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." App. Environ. 
Microbiol. 55:468-477. 
POUND, A. W. 1967. "Initiation of skin tumors in 
mice by homologs and N-substituted derivatives 
of ethyl carbamate." Aust.]. Exp. Bio. Med. Sci. 
45:507-516. 
RADLER, F. 1992. "Yeasts-Metabolism of organic 
acids." In Wine Microbiology and Biotechnology, G. 
H. Fleet, Ed., pp. 165-182. Camberwell, Victo­
ria, Australia: Harwood Academic Publishers. 
RADLER, F., and E. FucK. 1970. "Conversion of 
L-malic acid during Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
fermentation." Experientia 26:731. 
RAMEY, D. D., and C. S. OUGH. 1980. "Volatile ester 
hydrolysis on formation during storage of model 
solutions and wines." ]. Agric. Food Chem. 
28:928-934. 
RANKINE, B. C. 1963. "Nature, origin and preven­
tion of hydrogen sulphide aroma in wines." ]. 
Sci. Food Agric. 14:79-91. 
RANKINE, B. C. 1964. "Hydrogen sulphide produc­
tion by yeasts." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 15:872-877. 
RANKINE, B. C. 1966. "Decomposition of L-malic 
acid by wine yeasts." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
17:312-316. 
RANKINE, B. C. 1967. "Formation of higher alcohols 
by wine yeasts, and relationship to taste thresh­
olds." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 18:584-589. 
RAPP, G. 1975. "Studies on the biosynthesis of fer­
mentation amyl alcohol." Proc. 4th Inti. Oenol. 
Symp., Valencia, Spain, pp. 394-411. 
REAzIN, G., H. SCALES, and A. ANDREASEN. 1973. 
"Production of higher alcohols from threonine 
and isoleucine in alcoholic fermentation of dif­
ferent types of grain mash. ]. Agric. Food Chem. 
21:50-54. 190 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
REED, G., and T. W. NAGODAWITHANA. 1988. "Tech­
nology of yeast usage in winemaking." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 39:83-90. 
REED, G., and T. W. NAGODAWITHANA. 1991. Yeast 
Technology, 2nd ed. New York: Van Nostrand 
Reinhold. 
REICHERT, U., and M. FORET. 1977. "Energy cou­
pling in hypoxanthine transport of yeast." FEBS 
Letts. 83:325-328. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON,j., E. PEYNAUD, and M. LAFON. 1954. 
"Growth factors and secondary products of 
alcoholic fermentation." Compo Rend. 239: 
1549-1951. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON, j., E. PEYNAUD, and M. LAFON. 
1956a. "Investigations on the origin of sec­
ondary products of alcoholic fermentation, Part 
I." Am.]. Enol. 7:53-61. 
RIBEREAu-GAYON, j., E. PEYNAUD, and M. LAFON. 
1956b. "Investigations on the origin of sec­
ondary products of alcoholic fermentation, Part 
II." Am.]. Enol. 7:112-118. 
RIEGER, M., O. KAPELU, and A. FIECHTER. 1983. 
"The role of limited respiration in the incom­
plete oxidation of glucose by Saccharomyces cere­
visiae." ]. Gen. Microbiol. 129:653-661. 
ROON, R. j., H. L. EVEN, P. DUNLOP, and F. LARI­
MORE. 1975a. "Methylamine and ammonia trans­
port in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. Bacteriol. 
122:502-509. 
ROON, R. j., F. LARIMORE, and j. S. LEVY. 1975b. 
"Inhibition of amino acid transport by ammo­
nium ion in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. Bacteriol. 
124:325-331. 
ROON, R. j., j. S. LEVY, and F. LARIMORE. 1977a. 
"Negative interactions between amino acid and 
methyl amine/ammonia transport systems of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. Biol. Chem. 
252:3599-3604. 
ROON, R. j., G. M. MEYER, and F. S. LARIMORE. 
1977b. "Evidence for a common component in 
kinetically distinct transport systems of Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae." M olec. Gen. Genetics 
158:185-191. 
ROSA, M. F., and I. SA-CORREIA. 1991. "In vivo 
activation by ethanol of plasma membrane AT­
pase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Appl. Envir. Mi­
crobiol. 57:830:835. 
ROSE, A. H., M. j. BEAVAN, and C. CHARPENTIER. 
1982. "Physiological basis for enhanced ethanol 
production by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." In, Over-production of Microbiol Products, FEMS Symp. No. 
13, V. Kmmphanzyl, B. Sikyta, and Z. Vanek. 
Eds., pp. 211.219. New York: Academic Press. 
ROSI, j., and M. BERTUCCIOLI. 1984. "Effect of lipid~ 
on yeast growth and metabolism under simu­
lated vinification conditions." 1984 Technical Ab­
stracts, p. 20, Annual Meeting, American Society 
for Enology and Viticulture, June 21-23 1984, 
San Diego, California. 
Rous, C. V., R. SNOW, and R. E. KCNKEE. 1983. 
"Reduction of higher alcohols by fermentation 
with a leucine-auxotrophic mutant of wine 
yeast." ]. Inst. Brew. 89:274-278. 
SA-CORREIA, I., and N. VAN UDEN. 1986. "Ethanol­
induced death of Saccharomyces cerevisiae at low 
and intermediate growth temperatures." Biotech. 
Bioeng. 28:301:303. 
SALMON, j. M. 1989. "Effect of sugar transport inac­
tivation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae on sluggish and 
stuck enological fermentations." App. Environ. 
Micro. 55:9535-9538. 
SCHANDERL, H. 1959. Mikrobiologie des Mostes und 
Weines. Stuttgart, Germany, Ulmer. 
SCHMITT, H. D., M. CIRIACY, and F. K ZIMMERMANN. 
1983. "The synthesis of yeast pyruvate decarbox­
ylase is regulated by large variations in the mes­
senger RNA level." Molec. Gen. Genetics 
192:247-252. 
SCHUTZ, M., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1977. "Formation of 
hydrogen sulfide from elemental sulfur during 
fermentation by wine yeast." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
28:137-144. 
SENTHESHANMUGANATHAN, S. 1960a. "The mecha­
nism of the formation of higher alcohol from 
amino acids by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Biochem. 
]. 74:568-576. 
SENTHESHANMUGANATHAN, S. 1960b. "The purifica­
tion and properties of the tyrosine-2-oxog­
lutarate transaminase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Biochem.J. 77:619-625. 
SERRANO, R. 1978. "Characterization of the plasma 
membrane ATPase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Molec. Cell. Biochem. 22:51-63. 
SHARMA, S., and P. TAURO. 1986. "Control of ethanol 
production by yeast: Role of pyruvate decarbox­
ylase and alcohol dehydrogenase." Biotech. Letters 
8:735-738. 
SHlMAZU, Y., and M. WATANABE. 1981. "Effects of 
yeast strains and environmental conditions on form ation of organic acids in must 
fermentation."]' Ferment. Tech. 59:27-32. 
SINGH, R, and R E. KUNKEE. 1977. "Multiplicity 
and control of alcohol dehydrogenase isoen­
zymes in various strains of wine yeasts." Arch. 
Microbiol. 114:255-259. 
SINGLETOK, V. L., H. A. SIEBERHAGEN, P. DE WET, 
and C. J. VA.'! WYK. 1975. "Composition and 
sensory qualities of wines prepared from white 
grapes by fermentation with and without grape 
solids." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 26:62-69. 
SKINNER, D. Z., A. D. BUDDE, and S. A. LEONG. 1991. 
"Molecular karyotype analysis offungi." In, More 
Gene Manipulations in Fungi, pp. 86-103. New 
York: Academic Press. 
SOLES, R M., C. S. OUGH, and R E. KUNKEE. 1982. 
"Ester concentration differences in wine fer­
mented by various species and strains of yeasts." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 33:94-98. 
STEWART, G., A. FURST, and N. AVDALOVIC. 1988. 
"Transverse alternating field electrophoresis 
(T AFE)." Biotech. 6:68-73. 
STRATFORD, M., and A. H. ROSE. 1985. "Hydrogen 
sulphide production from sulphite by Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae."]' Gen. Micro. 131:1427-1424. 
STRATFORD, M., and A. H. ROSE. 1986. "Transport 
of sulphur dioxide by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. 
Gen. Micro. 132:1-6. 
SUMRADA, R., and T. G. COOPER. 1982. "Urea car­
boxylase and allophanate hydrolase are compo­
nents of multifunctional protein in yeast." ]. 
Biol. Chem. 257:9119-9127. 
SU:--J, G. Y., and A. Y. SUN. 1985. "Ethanol and 
membrane lipids." Alcohol. Clin. Exp. Res. 
9:164-180. 
SUOMAIAINEK, H., and A.J. A. KERANEN. 1967. "Keto 
acids formed by baker's yeast." ]. Inst. Brewing 
73:477-484. 
TABOR, H., C. W. TABOR, and M. S. COHN. 1983. 
"Mass screening for mutants in the polyamine 
biosynthetic pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Meth. Enzymol. 94:104-108. 
THOMA.~, C. S., R B. BOULTON, M. W. SILACCI, and 
W. D. GUBLER. 1993a. "The effect of elemental 
sulfur, yeast strain and fermentation medium on 
hydrogen sulfide production during fermenta­
tion." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 44:211-216. 
THOMAS, C. S., W. D. GUBLER, M. W. SILACCI, and R 
MILLER. 1993b. "Changes in elemental sulfur 
residues on Pinot noir and Cabernet Sauvignon Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 191 
berries during the growing season." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 44:205-210. 
THOMAS, D., R. BARBEY, D. HENRY, and Y. 
SARDI"I-KERjAN. 1992. "Physiological analysis of 
mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae impaired in 
sulphate assimilation." ]. Gen. Micro. 
138:2021-2028. 
THOMAS D. S., and A. H. ROSE. 1979. "Inhibitory 
effect of ethanol on growth and solute accumu­
lation by Saccharomyces cerevisiae as affected by 
plasma-membrane lipid compositions." Arch. 
Microbiol. 122:49-55. 
THORNE, R. S. W. 1958. "Statistical survey of the 
fermentation efficiencies of a large number of 
strains of brewery yeasts and a consideration of 
the utility of these efficiencies in classification." 
]. Inst. Brew. 64:411-42l. 
THOUKIS, G. 1958. "The mechanism of isoamyl al­
cohol formation using tracer techniques." Am.]. 
Enol. 9:161-167. 
TOKUYAMA, T., H. KURAISHI, K. AIDA, and T. UE­
~URA. 1973. "Hydrogen sulfide evolution due to 
pantothenic acid deficiency in yeast requiring 
this vitamin, with special reference to the effect 
of adenosine triphosphate on yeast cysteine 
desulfhydrase." ]. Gen. Appl. M icrobiol. 
19:439-466. 
TOME:--JCHOK, D. M., and M. C. BRANDRISS. 1987. 
"Gene-enzyme relationships in the proline 
biosynthetic pathway of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
]. Bacteriol. 169:5364-5372. 
TRAVERSO-RuEDA, S., and R E. KUNKEE. 1982. "The 
role of sterols on growth and fermentation on 
wine yeasts under vinification conditions." Devel­
opments in Industrial Microbiology 23: 131- 143. 
TREDOL'X, H. G., J. L. F. KOCK, P. M. IATEGAN, and 
H. B. MULLER. 1987. "A rapid identification 
technique to differentiate between Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae strains and other yeast species in the 
wine industry." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:161-164. 
UMBARGER, H. E. 1978. "Amino acid biosynthesis 
and its regulation." Ann. Rev. Biochem. 
47:533-606. 
USSEGLIO-ToMASSET, L. 1975. "Volatiles of wine de­
pendant on yeast metabolism." Proc. 4th Int!. 
Denol. Symp. Valencia, Spain, p. 346-370. 
V AHL, J. M. 1979. "A relative density-extract-alcohol 
nomograph for table wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
30:262-263. 192 Yeast and Biochemistry of Ethanol Fermentation 
VALLEJO, C. G., and R. SERRANO. 1989. "Physiology 
of mutants with reduced expression of plasma 
membrane H + -ATPase." Yeast 5:307-319. 
VAN UDEN, N. 1971. "Kinetics and energetics of 
yeast growth." In: The Yeasts, Vol.lI, A. H. Rose 
and J. S. Harrison, Eds., New York, Academic 
Press. 
VAN UDEN, N. 1989. Alcohol Toxicity in Yeast and 
Bacteria. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. 
VAN UDEN, N., and H. DA CRUZ DUARTE. 1981. "Ef­
fects of ethanol on the temperature profile of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Zeit. AUg. Mikrobiol. 
21:743-750. 
VAN URK, H., P. R. MAK, W. A. SCHEFFERS, andJ. P. 
VAN DIJKEN. 1988. "Metabolic responses of Sac­
charomyces cerevisiae CBS 8066 and Candida utilis 
CBS 621 upon transition from glucose limitation 
to glucose excess." Yeast 4:283-292. 
VAN Vl!l!REN, H. J. J., and C. J. JACOBS. 1992. "Killer 
yeasts in the wine industry: A review." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 43:119-128. 
VAN VUUREN, H. J. J., and L. VAN DER MEER. 1987. 
"Fingerprinting of yeasts by protein elec­
trophoresis." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:49-53. 
VAUGHN-MARTINI, A., and C. P. KURTZMAN. 1985. 
"Deoxyribonucleic acid relatedness among 
species of the genus Saccharomyces sensu stricto." 
Int.]. Syst. Bacteriol. 35:508-511. 
VERDUYN, C., E. POSTMA, W. A. SCHEFFERS, and J. P. 
VA,"I DIJKEN. 1990. "Physiology of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae in anaerobic glucose-limited chemostat 
cultures." ]. Gen. Microbiol. 136:359-403. 
VEZINHET, F., B. BLONDIN, and J-N. HALLET. 1990a. 
"Chromosomal DNA patterns and mitochon­
drial polymorphism as tools for identification of 
enological strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 32:568-571. 
VEZINHET, F., D. DELTEIL, and M. VALADE. 1990b. 
"Les apports du marquage genetique de souches 
de levures oenologiques pour Ie suivi des popu­
lations levuriennes en oenologie." In Actualities 
OEnologiques 89, P. Ribereau-Gayon and A. Lon­
vaud, Eds., pp. 233-237. Paris: Dunod. 
Vos, P.J. A., and R. S. GRAY. 1979. "The origin and 
control of hydrogen sulfide during fermentation 
of grape must." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 30:187-197. 
Vos, P. J. A., W. ZEEMAN, and H. HEYMANN. 1978. 
"The effect on wine quality of diammonium phosphate additions to musts." Proc. S. Afric. Soc. 
Enol. Vitic. Stellenbosch, South Mrica:87-104. 
WAINWRIGHT, T. 1970. "Hydrogen sulfide produc­
tion by yeast under conditions of methionine, 
pantothenate or vitamin B6 deficiency." ]. Gen. 
Microbiol. 61:107-119. 
WAINWRIGHT, T. 1971. "Production of H2S by wine 
yeast: Role of nutrients." ]. Appl. Bacteriol. 
34:161-171. 
WATSON, T. G. 1976. "Amino-acid pool composition 
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a function of growth 
rate and amino acid nitrogen source." ]. Gen. 
Microbiol. 96:263-268. 
WEBB, A. D., and J. L. INGRAHAM. 1963. "Fusel oil." 
Adv. App. Microbiol. 5:317-353. 
WENZEL, K., and H. H. DITTRICH. 1978. "Zur Beein­
flussung der Schwefelwasserstoff-bildung der 
Hefe durch Triib, Stickstoffgehalt, molecularen 
Schwefel und Kupfer bei der Vergarung von 
Traubenmost." Wein-Wissen. 33:200-214. 
WHITING, G. C. 1976. "Organic acid metabolism of 
yeasts during fermentation of alcoholic bever­
ages: A review." ]. Imt. Brewing 82:84-92. 
WHITNEY, P. A., and T. G. COOPER. 1972. "Urea 
carboxylase and allophanate hydrolase: Two 
components of adenosine triphosphate: Urea 
amido-Iyase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. Bioi. 
Chem. 247:1349-1353. 
WILLS, C. 1990. "Regulation of sugar and ethanol 
metabolism in Saccharomyces." Crit. Rev. Biochem. 
Molec. Bioi. 25:245-280. 
WINGER, C. M. 1982. "Effect of fermentation tem­
perature and yeast strain on residual compounds 
in wine." MS thesis, Davis, CA: University of 
California. 
WOODWARD, J. R., and V. P. CIRILLO. 1977. "Amino 
acid transport and metabolism in nitrogen­
starved cells of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." ]. Bacte­
riol. 130:714-723. 
YOUNG, T. W. 1987. "Killer yeasts." In The Yeasts, 
Vol. 2, 2nd ed., A. H. Rose and J. S. Harrison, 
Eds., New York: Academic Press. 
YUNOME, H., Y. ZENIBAYASHI, and M. DATE. 1981. 
"Characteristic components of botrytised wine­
sugar, alcohols, organic acids and other factors." 
Hakkokogaku 59:169-175. 
ZAMBONELLI, C., M. G. SOLI, and D. GUERRA. 1984. 
"A study of H2S non-producing strains of wine 
yeasts." Arch. Microbiol. 34:7-15. CHAPTER 5 
RED AND WHITE TABLE WINES 
A. ASPECTS OF WINE 
FERMENTATIONS 
There are several aspects of wine fermenta­
tions that are of general interest and these will 
be considered in detail before consideration is 
given to the major wine types. The addresses 
of equipment companies mentioned in this 
chapter can be found in Appendix I. 
1. Measures of Sugar Content and Extent 
of Fermentation 
There are a number of ways in which the 
sugar content of juice and the progress of an 
ethanol fermentation can be monitored. These 
methods can be classified as the actual con­
centration of sugar (or ethanol), those involv­
ing intrinsic fluid properties, such as the den­
sity, refractive index, or osmotic pressure, and 
those related to aggregate properties of the 
entire volume such as the weight loss, carbon 
dioxide volume evolved, or the heat released. 
The most common method in use today is 
measurement of the solution density in a man­
ually drawn sample, even though there are several limitations to this procedure due to 
localized sampling and the effects of sus­
pended solids (Cooke 1964). 
a. Density Scales 
There have been a number of density scales 
developed for sugar determination and these 
have generally been applied to the extent of 
fermentations. These are generally amplifica­
tions of the changes in the density or specific 
gravity of solutions when compared to that of 
water. The specific gravity (s. g.) is the ratio of 
the density of a solution to that of water, 
usually at 4°C or 20°C. The practice of cali­
brating hydrometers on the basis of weight 
percent was developed in the late 1700s by 
Antoine Baume. At one point there were at 
least four such scales (Balling, Klosterneuburg, 
Wagner, and Oechsle) in use in Germany and 
Austria (Von der Lippe 1894). Scales of this 
kind are now widely used in the measurements 
of sugar and ethanol solutions, acid and salt 
solutions, and even petroleum products. 
The scales most commonly used today in 
winemaking are Brix (used in the United States 
193 194 Red and White Table Wines 
and South Mrica), Baume (France, Italy, Spain, 
Portugal, Australia, and New Zealand), and 
the Oechsle scale (Germany, Switzerland, and 
Austria). The Klosterneuburg scale, originally 
developed by Babo in Austria to facilitate the 
estimation of wine ethanol content, was not 
widely adopted. Von der Lippe (1894) de­
scribes three unique hydrometers that were in 
use at the time. The first, the Guyot hydrome­
ter, had two sugar scales (Wagner or Baume 
units and percent sugar) and another a third 
scale with the potential ethanol content. The 
second, the Barth hydrometer, used in Alsace, 
measured Oechsle and had two different sugar 
scales, one for red grapes and the other for 
white grapes, each with a different correction 
for the nonsugar extract. The third, the 
Schmidt-Artersche hydrometer, used in the 
Pfalz region, measured Oechsle and contained 
the temperature corrections to be applied 
within the spindle. The scales usually differed 
in terms of the reference temperature (12.5, 
15.6, and 17.5°C). The Wagner scale was simi­
lar to the Baume scale but calibrated at 15.5°C, 
while the Baume, Balling, and Oechsle scales 
were based on 17.5°C. The Plato and Brix 
scales are generally used in the brewing indus­
tries throughout the world. 
The use of hydrometers calibrated for sugar 
solutions is favored over those in degrees proof 
or percent by volume ethanol, or those using 
percent by weight such as the Richter, Cartier, 
Sikes, or Tralles scales, due to the need for 
analysis in both grapes and wines. These scales 
have traditionally been used on distillates of 
wines, beers, and other preparations to deter­
mine the ethanol content. 
I. The Baume Scale. Antoine Baume de­
veloped the earliest density scale based on the 
concentration of salt solutions in 1768. Each 
degree of the scale corresponds to 1 % by 
weight of salt at 12.5°C and it originally ranged 
from 0 (water) to 15 with each degree being of 
equal length on the hydrometer stem (Baume 
1797). It has since been widely used for the 
measurement of sugar solutions and the scale 
used today has been recalibrated to 20°C and is characterized by the modulus 145 (Bates et 
al. 1942). One degree on the Baume scale is 
approximately 1.8 degrees of the Brix scale. 
145.0 
(20°C) Baume = 145.0 - ( ) s.g. 20/20°C 
= 0.0181 + 0.5532 * Brix 
(@ 20°C). 
The Baume scale is approximately related 
to potential ethanol in percent by volume 
(0.553 versus 0.595), but only if the nonsugar 
extract is ignored. In Europe, the earlier scale, 
calibrated at 15.5°C, can still be found in older 
texts and is characterized by a modulus of 
144.32: 
(I5.5°C) Baume 
144.32 
= 144.32 ------­s.g.(I5.5/15SC) 
II. The Balling Scale. This scale was 
named after its developer, Karl Balling, who 
calibrated it against the concentration of su­
crose solutions at (l7.5°C). It is no longer used 
since the Brix scale has been adopted with a 
20°C reference temperature as the standard 
scale for sugar analysis in the United States. 
Balling = weight percent sucrose at 17.5°C. 
III. The Brix Scale. This scale was devel­
oped in the mid 1800s when Antoine Brix 
recalculated Balling's scale to the reference 
temperature of 15.5°C. Today the Brix scale 
has been recalculated again to a reference 
temperature of 20°C and national standards in 
several countries have been adopted for this 
scale. The scale can be characterized with a 
modulus of 261.3 based on nonlinear regres­
sion of published tables: 
26l.3 
Brix = 261.3 - ( ° ) s.g. 20/20 C 
= weight percent sucrose at 20°C. 
w. The Oechsle Scale. This scale, like the 
Plato scale, simply amplifies the density contri­
butions of the solute over that of water, by a factor of 1000. It was originally calibrated at 
15.5°C but today the temperature of 20°C, is 
used. The Oechsle of a sugar solution is a 
good estimate of the potential ethanol (in giL) 
if the fermentation goes to dryness (Jakob 
1984). This is a fortunate circumstance of can­
celing effects since there is no correction for 
the nonsugar extract. 
Oechsle = [s.g. (20/20°C) -1.000] dOOO 
V. The Plato Scale. This scale was based 
on Plato's original density measurements 
(Bates et al. 1942) in which the density was 
scaled by that of water at 4°C and which has 
been recalculated to 17.5 DC. It is otherwise 
similar to the Brix scale, but instead with a 
modulus of 260.0 (De Clerke 1958). It is still 
widely used within the brewing industry. 
260.0 
Plato = 260.0 -------­
s.g.Cl 7.5/17SC) 
VI. The Klosterneuburg Scale. This scale 
was a modification of the Balling scale that 
attempted to estimate the actual sugar content 
of grape juices by factoring out 2 to 4% w /w 
as nonsugar components. It shows the early 
recognition of these effects and an attempt to 
correct for them. The one degree on the 
Baume or Wagner scales was approximately 
l.5 degrees on the Klosterneuburg scale. The 
level of nonsugar solutes is not proportional to 
the sugar content and this correction overesti­
mates the sugar content at high values (greater 
than 20°) and underestimates it at lower values 
(Marsh 1958). It has been superceded by the 
Brix and Baume scales. 
b. Temperature Corrections 
Since the specific gravity of a solution is tem­
perature dependent, these measurements 
should be either performed at the reference 
temperature of the hydrometer scale or the 
measurement temperature recorded and a 
correction applied. For the Brix scale at 25 
Brix, the corrections are approximately -0.06 
Brix per °C below 20 and + 0.07 Brix per °C Red and White Table Wines 195 
above. A more complete table of corrections 
can be found in the National Bureau of Stan­
dards Circular 440 (Bates et al. 1942), Ough 
and Amerine (1988), or other wine analysis 
texts. 
2. Potential Ethanol Content 
Of more significance than the initial sugar 
level is the estimation of the final ethanol 
concentration. There are a number of formu­
las that have been proposed for the estimation 
of this in wines. These generally include a 
correction to the sugar content to allow for 
the nonsugar content before applying a fer­
mentation yield factor. In this way the effects 
of the nonsugar extract of the grapes are not 
confused with those due to the fermentation 
conditions. 
One formula widely used in Europe is that 
proposed by Dubrunfaut and used with the 
Dujion-Saleron hydrometers (Benvegnin et al. 
1951). This formula estimates the potential 
ethanol by using early assumptions of 30 gil 
of nonsugar extract and a conversion factor 
from 0.059 from percent sugar to percent by 
volume ethanol: 
Potential ethanol (v /v%) 
= 0.059*[2.66*Oe -30] 
where Oe is the Oechsle of the juice. The 
factor 0.059 is the actual yield of mL of ethanol 
per 100 mL from one gram per L of sugar. 
The theoretical yield would be 0.064 and Pas­
teur's value was 0.061 (Marsh 1958). 
If this approach is applied to the data of the 
Dujardin Company, presented by Dubet 
(1913), for juice density and potential ethanol, 
the formula becomes: 
Potential ethanol (v /v%) 
= 0.0595*[2.66*Oe -31.8] 
but this is based on a limited range of sugar 
contents (130 to 148 giL). One approxima­
tion proposed by Benvegnin et al. (1951) for 196 Red and VVhite Table Wines 
the Oechsle scale is: 
Potential ethanol (v/v%) 
Oe -15 Oe 
6 -2.5 6 
Another variation of this formula, using a 
more recent expression for ethanol yield based 
on the reducing sugar content (Ribereau­
Gayon et al. 1975), is: 
Potential ethanol (v Iv%) 
= 0.0595 * [2560 * «s.g .20 120°C) 
-1.000) -22.2] 
and this corresponds to an ethanol conversion 
factor of 0.0573 and a nonsugar extract of 
21.4 giL. When expressed in the early form it 
becomes: 
Potential ethanol (v Iv%) 
= 0.0573*[2.66*Oe -23.1] 
Based on Californian data, Bioletti (Marsh 
1958) proposed the formula based on the Brix 
of the juice: 
Potential ethanol (g/100mL) 
= 0.47* [(sugarw/w%) -3.0] 
where the 0.47 factor is 92% of the theoretical 
conversion of 1 g of sugar to 0.51 g of ethanol 
and it is 97% of Pasteur's conversion value. 
The nonsugar extract was taken to be 3.0% by 
weight (i.e., 30.3 giL). This, when divided by 
0.794 (the density of ethanol) to bring the 
units to a volume basis becomes: 
Potential ethanol (v Iv%) 
= 0.592* [(sugarw/w%) -3.0] 
In an attempt to develop a simpler form 
using a direct conversion factor, Ough and 
Amerine (1963) and Jones and Ough (1985) 
have analyzed hundreds of wines from several 
years in all growing regions of California. They cast their results in the form: 
Potential ethanol (v Iv%) = a + b * Brix 
where the conversion factor b has been found 
to vary by year, cultivar, and the growing re­
gion and a was given less attention. They 
found that the conversion factor had values in 
the range 0.51 (dry red wines, region IV) to 
0.66 (dry white wines, region I). The annual 
conversion factors varied considerably more, 
ranging from 0.49 (dry red wine, region IV, 
1961) to 0.79 (dry white wine, region I, 1959). 
The value of a was found to vary between 
-4.92 and + 4.37. The negative values of a 
are to be expected and correspond to non­
sugar extract included in the Brix reading. 
These authors assumed the non-sugar extract 
to be 2.5% for white juices in both regions, 
3.0% for the red musts from region I, and 
3.5% for those from region IV. 
The positive values of a imply that addi­
tional ethanol was formed from solutes other 
than those measured as Brix, and this is pre­
sumably due to additional sugar release from 
the skins during the fermentations as noted. 
The conversion factor b is consequently dis­
torted upward under these conditions. 
If the data for 18 cultivars (nine red and 
nine white) is averaged over nine years (Ough 
and Amerine 1963) and cast in the Dubrun­
faut form using a nonsugar extract of 3 g/100 
g, the ethanol yield factors for the two regions 
can be calculated as seen in Table 5-1a. Alter­
natively, by assuming the ethanol conversions 
to be those used by earlier authors, the non­
sugar content can be estimated from the same 
Table 5-1a. The ethanol yield factor for grapes from 
two regions based on 3 g /100 g of non-sugar content. 
White wines Red wines 
Region (nine-year mean) (nine-year mean) 
I 0.665 0.635 
IV 0.655 0.588 
Source of data: 
I Based on nine cuI tivars. 
2 Data from Ough and Amerine (1963). Table 5-1b. The non-sugar content of grapes from 
two regions based on a conversion factor of 0.595. 
White wines Red wines 
Region (nine-year mean) (nine-year mean) 
0.673 1.86 
IV 1.08 3.25 
I Based on nine cultivars. 
2Source of data: Ough and Amerine (]963). 
data. This leads to nonsugar contents much 
lower than the 3 g/100 g value in the grapes 
considered (Table 5-1 b). 
The practice has developed in some quar­
ters of simply dividing the ethanol obtained by 
the initial Brix to estimate the ethanol conver­
sion. This is an inappropriate use of the con­
version formulas and it ignores the effect and 
variation of the nonsugar content. As can be 
seen from Tables 5-1a and 5-1b, the difference 
of 1 g/100 g of nonsugar extract can result in 
a variation in the apparent yield of approxi­
mately 0.03 v /v% per Brix. The major physio­
logical factor related to the extract value would 
seem to be berry size but this has not been 
taken into account in these studies. There are 
also potential errors in the initial Brix content 
due to slightly dehydrated berries, and this 
tends to underestimate the sugar available and 
to overestimate the ethanol yield. The forma­
tion of different levels of cell mass during 
fermentation (Jones and Ough 1985) due to 
differences in the amino acid content, may, 
together with differences in malate content 
contribute to the yield factor, but this has yet 
to be demonstrated in defined media. 
The early formulas were based primarily on 
wines made by natural yeast fermentations with 
little control of fermentation temperature and 
not necessarily dry by today's standards. There 
is a need for further study of the factors in­
fluencing the nonsugar extract of different 
cultivars grown in different regions. 
3. Yeast Inoculation 
The usual practice for many years has been 
the use of a single strain inoculum for the Red and White Table Wines 197 
initiation of wine fermentations. The early de­
velopment of yeast preparations (Castor 1953; 
Thoukis et al. 1963) was quickly adopted in 
California in the 1960s and is now a widespread 
practice throughout the world (Kraus et al. 
1983). The main advantages of this practice 
are the rapid initiation and predictable nature 
of the fermentations and the ability to elimi­
nate undesirable byproduct formation by nat­
ural flora. It also permits the rapid develop­
ment of inocula when compared to the use of 
yeast propagation tanks and is more conve­
nient for small wineries. 
a. Inoculum Levels 
The standard level of inoculation involves the 
addition of yeast cells at levels which corre­
spond to between 1 and 2% of the typical final 
populations. This is equivalent to approxi­
mately three million to six million cells / mL 
and obtained by the addition of 120 to 240 
mg/L of active dry yeast. The use of larger 
inoculations by some wineries, such as twice or 
three times the standard, while costing pro­
portionately more, can have important advan­
tages in the certainty and speed of fermenta­
tion, the insensitivity of the fermentation to 
the nutritional status of the juice, and perhaps 
the extent of accumulation of certain byprod­
ucts related to the growth phase. There are, 
however, few studies of the influence of the 
initial cell population level on the formation 
of such components as the acetate esters, 
higher alcohols, acetic acid, urea, sulfite, or 
hydrogen sulfide, even though these effects 
might be expected. 
The effect of a larger initial yeast popula­
tion is to deplete most of the nutrients more 
quickly, often leading to only two or three 
doublings rather than the more usual four to 
five. One important result of this practice is 
the generation of a population which is more 
similar in age (and perhaps other factors, such 
as cell viability). Another is the reduction in 
the fraction of the fermentation which occurs 
by growth and cell division. A third is the 
more rapid onset of active fermentation and 198 Red and White Table Wines 
the point at which the beginning of fermenta­
tion is detected. 
While at least one study has attributed 
poorer fermentation performance to very large 
inoculation (up to 20%) and postulated an 
inhibitor associated with the inoculum, 
(Strehaiano et al. 1983), an alternative expla­
nation is that the effect observed was more 
likely due to the significant dilution of the 
nutrient concentration in the fermentation 
medium, of the order of 15 to 20%, with the 
volume of an inoculation medium that had 
been depleted of most nutrients during cul­
ture. 
4. Gas Evolution During Fermentation 
The volume of carbon dioxide and the rate at 
which it is released are important features of 
the fermentation. This gas evolution poses a significant working hazard within buildings 
unless it is removed by either ducting or by 
the inflow of outside air. The volume of car­
bon dioxide evolved is one possible means of 
measuring the progress of the fermentation 
and its rate of evolution is essentially propor­
tional to the rate of fermentation. Both of 
these quantities are of importance to the de­
sign of gas venting and air intake systems in 
wineries. 
a. Volume of Carbon Dioxide 
The total volume of carbon dioxide produced 
by a grape juice fermentation is of the order 
of 56 L/L of must for the complete fermenta­
tion of a sugar content of 210 giL (approxi­
mately 24 Brix as juice) at 20°C. The volume is 
influenced by the gas temperature (Tg) and 
this effect is accounted for by the ratio of 
absolute temperatures: 
Volume = gas volume * moles CO 2 * temperature 
of CO 2 per mole CO 2 per Litre term 
- * --* * * g _ [ 22.4 L ] [210 g I mole sugar 2 moles CO 2] [(273.2 + T ) 1 
mol CO 2 L 180 g 1 mole sugar 273.2 
= 56.0 L CO 2 per L of juice at 20°C. 
The actual values for typical fermentation 
temperatures range from 55.0 L/L at 15°C to 
57.9 L/L at 30°C without the volumetric cor­
rections for the presence of water vapor. 
b. Rate of Carbon Dioxide Release 
The daily or hourly rate of gas release can be 
obtained by scaling this volume by the fraction 
of sugar consumed (in giL) in the period of 
interest. For example, 10,000 L of a white 
juice fermenting at a rate of 1 Brix per day 
(approximately 11 giL/day) at 15°C, would 
produce carbon dioxide at a rate of: 
dVco/dt = 55.0 L CO 2/Ljuice * 11/210 
* 10,000 Ljuice 
or 28.8 X 103 L of CO 2 per day. c. Gas Release from Barrel 
Fermentations 
The maximum rates of gas evolution can be 
used to calculate the air replacement rate to 
maintain safe carbon dioxide and oxygen lev­
els in the fermentation room, and this is espe­
cially important for barrel fermentations, 
which are often conducted by the hundreds in 
poorly ventilated tunnels or rooms. 
It is not generally appreciated that the in­
troduction of large volumes of outside air poses 
a very large additional load on any air condi­
tioning system that attempts to regulate the 
cellar temperature. In one particular installa­
tion, a large barrel storage building was to be 
used for barrel fermentations. The air condi­
tioning load was doubled by the heat released during the fermentations, but the introduc­
tion of outside air required a further sixfold 
increase in cooling capacity. 
Assuming that the juice occupies two-thirds 
of the barrel volume, the total gas release 
figures become 9537 L/barrel at 15°C and 
9702 L/barrel at 20°C. 
d. Safe Working Conditions 
The federal safety regulations in the United 
States related to workplace conditions have an 
upper limit of 0.5% (5000 ppm, or 9000 
mg/M3) for the carbon dioxide concentration 
(Crowl and Louvar 1991). The quantity of out­
side air that needs to be introduced in order 
to maintain this level in the presence of a 
fermentation can be calculated to be 24.75 
times the carbon dioxide evolved (assuming 
that the outside air has 600 ppm of carbon 
dioxide to begin with). This amounts to ap­
proximately 1423 Lair /L must during the 
course of a typical fermentation. 
The specific rate of air intake (that is L per 
L of fermenting juice) on a daily or hourly 
basis is then this value scaled by the fraction of 
the total sugar that is fermented in the period. 
For the example considered above, of the 
10,000 L of white juice fermenting at 1 Brix 
per day, the required air intake is: 
dVair/dt = 24.75*55.0* 11/210 
= 71.3 L air per L of juice per day 
e. Fermentation Gas Removal 
One approach is not to conduct the fermenta­
tions inside closed buildings using either out­
side fermentation pads that are covered or 
protected from the weather. The alternative 
approach, which is used by a limited number 
of wineries, is to remove the carbon dioxide 
from each fermentor through a ducting sys­
tem to the outside of the building. This can be 
done by either using the headspace pressure 
of each active fermentor, or by venting with a 
fan or blower. The headspace venting ap­
proach would need additional fittings to iso­
late fermentors that are not in use from the 
duct. Red and White Table Wines 199 
This venting approach has the advantage of 
then requiring an air intake to the building 
that is only once or twice the volume of car­
bon dioxide removed. This also permits a far 
more energy-efficient operation since a much 
smaller volume of outside air needs to be 
cooled in order to maintain the cellar at a 
chosen temperature. A third consideration for 
the future is the ability to collect the fermenta­
tion gases for further treatment or component 
recovery. While it is presently not considered 
to be financially advantageous to recover the 
CO 2 or to attempt to recover fermentation 
volatiles, future interests in these options might 
make the installation gas collection and tem­
porary on-site processing systems more com­
mon. 
The production of industrial and scientific 
grades of carbon dioxide can be produced 
from air by either cryogenic distillation and 
membrane separation processes; starting with 
a 98% CO 2 gas phase would seem to have 
dramatic advantages over the use of air as a 
starting material. 
The practical implications of the venting 
approach are related to the potential for mi­
crobial contamination within the ducts and 
the ease with which they can be cleaned, the 
need for enclosed fermentors, and some kind 
of individual or group collection manifolds for 
barrel fermentation areas. 
The removal of ethanol vapor from exit 
gases on the suggestion that it was a potential 
precursor of atmospheric ozone formation has 
been under serious consideration for several 
years in California. The scientific evidence to 
date is that ethanol does not contribute sig­
nificantly to ozone formation. It has been 
grouped with a number of other compounds 
based on its initial reactivity under radiation 
conditions, but there is no evidence that it 
continues to react in the same way based on 
final ozone yield. While there has been an 
interest in the commercial recovery of the 
ethanol from the vapors of alcoholic fermen­
tations for decades, the changing economic 
and environmental considerations continue to 
make this of interest. 200 Red and White Table Wines 
Whether because of a safer working envi­
ronment or energy efficiency considerations in 
cellars, increases in the commodity values of 
carbon dioxide or ethanol, a significant de­
crease in the expense of separation technolo­
gies, or the introduction of such regulations, 
the installation of such gas collection systems 
may well become an essential part of winery 
buildings in the future. 
5. Heat Release During Fermentation 
The conversion of the grape sugars to ethanol 
by yeast under anaerobic conditions is a con­
siderably exothermic series of reactions. The 
generally accepted value for the energy re­
lease of this fermentation is 101.2 kJ/mole. A 
critical review of this value and the related 
studies has been prepared by Williams (I 982). 
The quantity of energy released is such that if 
it was all transformed into an adiabatic tem­
perature rise in the juice, increases of the 
order of 26°e would occur for a juice of 210 
giL (24 Brix as juice). This is equivalent to a 
rise of 0.125°e per giL fermented, or 1.37°e 
rise per Brix fermented. 
a. The Need for Temperature Control 
The rate of heat release is directly propor­
tional to the rate of fermentation, but these 
rates increase exponentially with increasing 
temperature. If the temperature cannot be 
controlled by heat removal, the temperature 
will begin to rise and the rate of heat release 
will continue to grow in a runaway situation. 
The existence of elevated temperatures 
during fermentation can lead to the death of 
the added yeast and the allowance of the more 
thermally tolerant strains and species to com­
plete the fermentation. Many wine yeast strains 
are killed rapidly at temperatures of 40 to 
42°e (Jacob et al. 1964; van U den et al. 1968). 
The maximum growth temperature of wine 
yeast decreases with the formation of ethanol, 
from 400e in the absence of ethanol to 300e at 
10% ethanol (Loureiro and van Uden 1982). 
Thermal death of the desired yeast simply 
permits the possibility of dominance by other microorganisms and the formation of undesir­
able byproducts. For this reason the tempera­
ture of red wine fermentations is generally not 
permitted to rise to above 30oe. Prior to the 
introduction of refrigeration, incomplete fer­
mentations due to this were quite common 
(Bioletti 1906). The widespread use of refrig­
eration or other cooling methods to control 
the fermentation temperature makes this a 
rare situation today. 
b. Potential Temperature Rise 
In practice, the temperature rise will always be 
less than the theoretically expected value due 
to the energy converted into the latent heat of 
evaporation of the water and ethanol, which 
are at saturation levels in the exiting carbon 
dioxide. The calculated energy release cor­
rected for this is shown in Figure 5-1. This 
corresponds to about 7 to 10% of the heat 
release for red wines and typically 5% for 
white wines. Some of the energy released is 
also lost as enthalpy of warm carbon dioxide 
in the exit gas of red fermentors, by the con­
ductive and convective transfer to the ambient 
air, and by radiation with the surroundings. 
The contributions to the gas enthalpy and the 
transfer to (or from) the surroundings will 
obviously vary according to the fermentation 
temperature of either white juices or red musts, 
the geometry, size, and insulation of the fer­
mentor and the extent to which solar and 
internal radiation contributions are present. 
The formula proposed by Bioletti (I906) for 
the degrees of cooling required during fer­
mentation is: 
Degrees of 
cooling = 1.17 * Brix -~uice + Tmax ' 
(OF) 
where ~uice and Tmax are the initial juice and 
maximum fermentation temperatures. In the 
absence of cooling, the temperature rise due 
to fermentation becomes: Red and White Table Wines 201 
100 
Qj 
0 95 E ..... 
J 
~ 
c: 0 90 ~ 
III .. c: 
Q) 
~ 85 
LL 
.... 0 .. 80 III 
Q) 
I 
75 
320 328 336 344 352 360 
Reciprocal Absolute Temperature (1065/K) Fig. 5-1. Fermentaton heat release 
as a function of temperature. 
or 
and appears to be based on an assumption of 
40% of the heat being lost in the exiting gas 
and to the surroundings. This may have been 
developed for very warm fermentation tem­
peratures and wooden fermentors that have 
limited application today. The actual tempera­
ture rise will depend on several factors and 
these include the cellar temperature, the sur­
face area to volume ratio, and the thermal 
conductivity of the fermentor wall. At cellar 
temperatures of 15°C to 20°C, barrel fermen­
tations display temperature rises that suggest 
that the temperature factor should be 0.25°C 
rather than the 0.65°C per Brix that was prob­
ably derived from much larger wooden 
fermentors. 
c. Rates of Heat Release 
For isothermal conditions, the rates of heat 
removal by refrigeration and ambient means 
must equal the rate of generation. The rate of 
heat generation for a juice fermenting at a 
rate of 11 giL/day (approximately 1 Brix/ 
day) can be calculated to be 77.5 x 10-3 W /L. 
For red wine fermentations at 25°C and 30°C, 
with peak rates of 44 to 66 giLl day (4 to 
6 B/day), this corresponds to maximum rates of approximately 310 to 465 x 10-3 W /L, 
respectively. For white wines at 15°C and 20°C, 
with peak rates of 22 and 33 giL/day (2 to 3 
B/day), the values are 155 and 233 x 10-3 
W /L. These are theoretical values without tak­
ing into account the 5 to 10% of the heat 
generated that is lost in the enthalpy of the 
fermentation gas. 
These peak rates provide the minimum de­
sign criterion for the cooling demand of the 
fermentor and when summed for all fermen­
tors, the total fermentation cooling demand at 
any time. The daily loads can be found by 
using the fraction of the heat released during 
each 24-hour period, assuming a normal dis­
tribution in time in which the standard devia­
tion is one-sixth of the fermentation period 
and the mean is three standard deviations in 
magnitude. 
Given the different fermentation tempera­
tures for red and white wines this may lead to 
different choices of a cooling medium when 
in all other respects the fermentor could be 
used for both situations. The fermentors need 
to be specially fabricated if direct expansion of 
a refrigerant is to be used in the jackets. This 
is because the refrigerant will be under much 
higher pressure in the jacket than for glycol or 
chilled water and the design will need to sat­
isfy the safety codes for pressure vessels. 202 Red and White Table Wines 
Although the jackets have relatively poor 
heat transfer coefficients, they are commonly 
employed because of their ease of use. The 
coolant flow to the jacket is controlled by a 
solenoid valve on the coolant line to or from 
the jacket. 
The use of an external heat exchanger is 
somewhat more laborious in that hose connec­
tions need to be made and broken each time 
cooling is needed. This can be easily achieved 
if the cooling can be scheduled to coincide 
with the pump-over operation. 
The rate of heat transfer required to main­
tain a constant temperature is highest for red 
wines because they ferment faster at the higher 
temperatures employed. As a result, it is these 
conditions that should be used for the proper 
design of the cooling arrangement for the 
fermentor. 
d. Jacketed Fermentors 
For small and medium-sized, upright, cylindri­
cal fermentors, it is common for a cooling 
jacket to be mounted on the outside of the 
tank wall. The ratio of wall area to volume is 
inversely proportional to the fermentor diam­
eter so that a fermentor with twice the volume 
will have only half of the wall area per unit 
volume for cooling. Conversely, smaller fer­
mentors will have a larger wall area per unit 
volume. This translates into a practical upper 
limit for the size of a fermentor that can be 
economically managed by jacket cooling. 
A fermentation model was used to estimate 
any particular combination of fermentation 
temperature and volume, the available heat 
transfer area, exchanger type, and the re­
quired coolant temperature to be evaluated 
for either design or process control applica­
tions. Typical examples are the need for a 
lOoC (50°F) coolant to control a 30,000-L 
020,000-gal.) wine fermentation at 25°C (77°F) 
if 50% of the tank wall area was jacketed or 
17.5°C coolant if the entire wall was jacketed, 
(Boulton 1979). 
While the rate of heat removal depends on 
both the overall coefficient and the coolant 
temperature, colder coolants can be used to compensate for poor coefficients but only with 
decreasing refrigeration efficiency and addi­
tional energy expense. The extent of the am­
bient loss term depends on both the ambient 
temperature and the overall heat transfer co­
efficient (U) of the surface which in turn de­
pends on factors such as solar radiation and 
thermal insulation on the tank. 
e. External Heat Exchangers 
The way in which external cooling IS per­
formed can have a significant effect on the 
time required to obtain a particular degree of 
cooling. It is shown in Chapter 12 that batch 
cooling of an unagitated tank is more effective 
than a batch which is being mixed as the 
cooled juice is being returned. This happens 
to be the common practice in wineries since 
the fermentors are not well mixed and the 
returning juice is generally returned to either 
the top (over the skins of a red fermentation) 
or to the base of a white fermentor. The 
reason for the faster cooling of the nonmixed 
arrangement is that the effective temperature 
difference between the juice and the coolant 
is larger throughout the cooling cycle than 
when continual mixing occurs. The mixing 
causes the juice temperature to approach that 
of the coolant, decreasing the temperature 
driving force and, therefore, the rate of heat 
transfer throughout the cooling cycle. 
f. Barrel Fermentations 
For barrel fermentations, the absence of re­
frigeration and the poor heat transfer coeffi­
cient of the wooden staves requires cooler 
ambient temperatures if the fermentation 
temperature rise is to be limited. In practice, it 
is common for such fermentations to be al­
lowed to experience temperature rises of be­
tween 5°C to lOoC. The early measurements of 
Miiller-Thurgau (Schanderl 1959) show that 
the relationship between the temperature rise 
during fermentation is proportional to the 
cube root of the volume (Figure 5-2). It can be 
shown that larger barrels with the same juice 
and in the same ambient temperature will 
experience larger fermentation temperature Red and White Table Wines 203 
40 
Q 
Q) 
5 32 .... 
III 
~ 24 f-
e 0 • .';::; 
III 16 .... 
~ 
Q; 
LL 8 
~ 
III 
Q) 
0. 
o~--~----~----~----~----~--~----~--~ 
o 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000 
Fermentor Volume (U 
rises than smaller ones due to the ratio of 
surface area of the container to the ferment­
ing volume. This ratio has the dimensions of 
length and that is why the temperature rise 
varies with the cube root of the volume (Boul­
ton 1979). The rate of temperature change is 
related to the difference of the rates of forma­
tion and removal: 
dT /dt = d H dS/dt/ pC 
-[T w -Ta] U A/VpC 
where d H is the heat of fermentation (101.2 
k]/mole of sugar); p and C are the density 
and heat capacity of the wine; and the sub­
scripts wand a refer to the temperature of 
the wine and ambient air, respectively. 
At the peak temperature, the rate of heat 
removal is exactly equal to the rate of heat 
generation, that is dT /dt = 0, and the maxi­
mum temperature can be estimated: 
Tmax = Ta + [dHdS/dt]V/(UA). 
The peak temperature achieved in the fer­
mentation can be shown to depend on the 
ambient or cellar temperature Ta, the overall 
heat transfer coefficient U, and the ratio of 
surface area to fermenting volume (Boulton 
1979). The temperature rise above ambient is then: Fig. 5-2. Effect of fermentor size on 
peak fermentation temperature. 
d T = Tmax -Ta = [d H dS / dt]V /(U / A). 
For 250 L-barrel sizes, the overall heat 
transfer coefficient has been estimated to be 
approximately 24 x lOA W /m2/oe, and a 
typical barrel fermentation, (150 L at 200e), 
would result in a temperature rise of: 
d T= [101.2* 1000] ]/mole 
[ 44 g/L/day* 150 L 1 
* 180 g/mole 1000 L/m3 
* [ 12044
] * [ 1.9 ~2/m3 ] [ 24 * 36~os/day ] 
= 9.4°e at 4 Brix/ day 
(4.7°e at 2 Brix/ day). 
An example of such a temperature rise can 
be seen for a typical barrel fermentation in a 
cellar at 18°e (Figure 5-3). 
6. Volume Changes 
The most significant physical change that oc­
curs during the fermentation is a shrinkage 
due to the change in the specific volumes of 
the major solutes. The volume occupied by 204 Red and White Table Wines 
25 22 
19 20 
X Q 
~ 13 18 Ql 5 
), .... .... to ... ·00 c 7 Ql 0 16 ~ 
Ql I-
14 
-5 '------'-----'------'-----'-------' 12 o 4 8 12 16 20 
Time (Days) Fig. 5-3. Temperature rise during a bar­
rel fermentation. • Brix 0 Temperature 
sugar in a 22 Brix solution is 164 mLjL, while 
that due to ethanol in a 12% v jv solution is 
114 mLjL. A further 6 mLjL is due to glyc­
erol formation. This 44 mLjL (or 4.4%) loss 
in volume at 20°C is due to the change in 
solute volume during fermentation. The spe­
cific volumes of glucose and ethanol are in­
fluenced slightly by temperature. The evapo­
rative losses of water and ethanol during fer­
mentation at 20°C are approximately 1200 and 
600 mgjL (or 1.2 and 0.75 mL), respectively, 
and this accounts for only 0.2% as a volume 
contraction. 
7. Dissolved Carbon Dioxide 
During fermentation, juices will contain car­
bon dioxide concentration well above the sat­
uration concentration. This is because the rate 
of bubble formation and gas evolution is usu­
ally slower than the rate of generation by 
fermentation. For this reason there is little 
possibility of oxygen pickup during pump-over 
operations due to the denser-than-air property 
of carbon dioxide. The promotion of bubble 
formation (and gas release) is enhanced dur­
ing pump-over operations due to the turbu­
lence generated during swirling and mixing. 
However, this enhanced release does not oc­
cur for white wines since they are not usually 
mixed or circulated during fermentation. At the end of fermentation, young wines will hold 
considerable quantities of dissolved carbon 
dioxide, usually two or more times the satura­
tion concentrations, and this will be released 
during transfers and barrel storage in the fol­
lowing months. 
The quantities of dissolved carbon dioxide 
for saturated conditions are almost 1.8 gjL 
(or 920 mL of C0 2jL wine) at a storage tem­
perature 10°C. This would be expected for 
white wines normally held under a complete 
carbon dioxide headspace at one atmosphere 
pressure. The solubility is quite sensitive to 
temperature and if the wine temperature is to 
rise to 15°C (where the solubility has fallen to 
about 1.6 gjL), there will be the potential for 
approximately 100 mL of CO 2 to be evolved 
for each liter of wine, or approximately 22 L 
of CO 2 per barrel. 
During processing, it will be desirable to 
utilize the denser-than-air properties of CO 2 
for blanketing wines during tank transfers, but 
it will be important to remove the majority of 
this dissolved gas and to convert to nitrogen as 
the wines move closer to bottling. 
8. Evaporative Ethanol losses 
The headspace above a fermenting juice or 
wine will generally be saturated in both water Red and White Table Wines 205 
2500,---------------------------------------, 
2000 
1500 
1000 
500 
240 480 720 
Ethanol Emission (mg/L) 
vapor and ethanol vapor. During the alcoholic 
fermentation, the release of large volumes of 
carbon dioxide sweeps with it these saturated 
vapors, leading to a small but significant 
ethanol loss from the wine. The values of 
water vapor and ethanol vapor contents are 
shown in Figure 5-4 for temperatures between 
lOoC and 30°C. The main concern with this 
evaporation is that it is a volatile emission that 
has been considered by some groups to be a 
precursor of photochemical smog. As a result 
there have been proposals to strip the ethanol 
vapor from fermentation gases prior to release 
to the atmosphere. These proposed processes 
range from condensation, adsorption on car­
bon, and catalytic combustion. There are sev­
eral difficulties with each of these. The con­
densation temperature of the ethanol at the 
concentrations seen in these vapors is approxi­
mately -10°C, and the water vapor will have 
condensed (and frozen onto the condenser 
surface) before this can occur quite apart from 
other design difficulties. The catalytic combus­
tion is complicated by the absence of oxygen 
in the gas, which then requires the introduc­
tion of approximately twice the volume of air 
to that of the fermentation gas for complete 
combustion of the ethanol present. 
The loss of ethanol is insignificant with re­
spect to the final ethanol content of the wine, 
and is estimated to be 1060 mg/L (8.81b/kgaI) 960 1200 Fig. 5-4. Comparison of ethanol 
and water emissions during fer­
mentation. 
for red wines (30°C), and 400 mg/L (3.2 
Ib/kgaO for white wines at 15°C (Williams and 
Boulton, 1983). There have been many pro­
posals for the recovery of the ethanol for 
other reasons, typically as a byproduct for sale, 
as an essence for adding back to wines, and as 
a means of purifYing the carbon dioxide prior 
to its recovery for reuse or sale. As might be 
expected, a number of other trace volatile 
components are also at saturation levels in the 
headspace. These include esters, aldehydes, 
sulfur dioxide, terpenes, and sulfides, but their 
recovery by condensation or membrane meth­
ods is not commercially feasible at present 
since they are in extremely low vapor concen­
trations and the treatment volumes are large 
and seasonal. 
The evaporative loss is strongly dependent 
of the juice and skin cap temperature, since 
this influences both the vapor pressure and 
the liquid phase activity coefficient of the 
ethanol. The total amount of the emission also 
increases with the square of the sugar content, 
assuming complete fermentation. The peak 
emission rate is somewhat delayed from the 
maximum fermentation rate due the effect of 
increasing ethanol content with fermentation 
progress. 
The total ethanol emission for particular 
sugar content and fermentation temperature 206 Red and White Table Wines 
can be determined from generalized relation­
ships shown in Figure 5-5 (Williams and Boul­
ton 1983). 
9. On-line Fermentation Measurements 
The traditional method by which fermentation 
progress and extent have been measured is by 
drawing samples from the fermentor one or 
two times each day. The density values are 
usually tabulated and in some cases graphed, 
but that is usually the extent to which they are 
analyzed. The main limitation of this ap­
proach is that the sample drawn is generally 
very small in comparison to the volume being 
fermented and often is not a good indication 
of the entire volume. A second limitation is 
the time required for sample collection when 
many fermentors are involved. 
a. Direct Measurements of 
Fermentation Rate and Extent 
There have been a number of attempts to 
automate the measurement of fermentation 
progress and these can be classified as those 
based on point sampling and those based on 
aggregate or overall properties of the ferment­
ing volume. 
1. Point Sampling Approaches. The tradi­
tional use of solution density is favored over 
other solution properties such as refractive 
index partly due to the instruments available 
and partly due to sensitivity. Of all the solution 
properties, the osmotic pressure shows the 
largest change from juices to wine, but the 
lack of commercially available osmometers has 
prevented this measure from being adopted. 
Advances in the autosampling of small vol­
umes has not been successfully adopted for 
several reasons. These include the need for a 
central instrument and a network of sampling 
lines with one to each fermentor. The block­
ing of the line by solids and yeast, fermenta­
tion within the line and degassing of the sam­
ple are complicating factors that exist in wine 
applications. The sample that needs to be 
drawn is often not that required by the instru­
ment, but instead the volume required to dis-5000 
4000 
3000 
........ 
~ 2000 .... , 
...J , , ..... , , 
(!) , , .... 
~ .... , ' .... , °BRIX 
'''''''' " , u...30 (/) , .... (/) 1000 '" , , 
0 900 , , " ...J , 
800 ' .... , '"0.25 '" ...J 700 , , , 
0 , , " 223", "" ........ z 600 , ' .... , 
« , , , , , .... 
J: 500 , '0..20 , 
t- " , , , 
W 400 " " .... , , 
...J , , .... , 
« , , 
t-300 .... .... .... , 
0 u!5 , 
t-""', 200 ........ 
.... 
T °C 
35 30 25 20 15 10 
100 
.0032 .0033 .0034 .0035 
t(OK)-1 
(a) 
0.10 
0.08 
0.06 
0.04 
'" !.-
...J ..... 
C!> 0.02 
...J 0 
..... 
C!> 
~ 
0.01 
'" !.- 0.008 25°BRIX ....... " en 
I 0.006 EPA ~, 0 EQUATION 20.4 °BRIX "" en 0 
... 0.004 '\', ., \ " 0 ..J \ \, UJ 
0.002 ~ \ 
\ \ 
T °C \ \ 
35 30 25 20 15 10 5 
0.001 
.0032 .0033 .0034 .0035 .0036 
I OK-I T 
(b) 
Fig. 5-5. a) Effect of temperature and sugar concentra­
tion on ethanol emissions. b) General relationship for the 
ethanol emission as a function of sugar level and tempera­
ture. place the contents of the line before a sample 
of the fermentor juice reaches the instrument. 
All of the solution approaches need tem­
perature corrections to be applied, but this is 
usually a simple matter. The main limitation 
continues to be the concentration gradients 
within un stirred fermentors and the accuracy 
of the sample as it reflects the contents of the 
fermentor. 
II. Aggregate Fermentation Approaches. 
The alternative to drawing samples for analysis 
is to measure features of the fermentation 
such as the volume of carbon dioxide evolved, 
the amount of heat released, or the change in 
juice or must weight. These features and their 
rates of change are closer reflections of the 
properties of the entire volume, are not intru­
sive, and avoid losses of juice. 
The heat evolution approach has been at­
tempted with beer fermentations (Ruocco et 
al. 1980) and is based on the measurement of 
flow rate and temperature rise of the coolant. 
The secondary contributions are significant 
both as losses of heat in released carbon diox­
ide and the radiant interchange of energy with 
the surroundings. 
The gas evolution approach requires the 
measurement of gas flow and its integration 
over time. There are corrections for water and 
ethanol vapor pressures, but like the heat re­
lease approach, the measurements cannot be 
interrupted due to opening the fermentor for 
pump-overs or for the addition of juice. The 
accurate measurement of gas rates usually in­
volves more than one meter since the flow rate 
varies from low rates at first to a peak value 
several times the earlier rates before it sub­
sides again to low values. Examples of this 
approach are the studies by Shibata (1979) 
and El Haloui et al. (1988). 
Both the heat release and gas evolution 
approaches require extensive instrumentation 
on each tank and uninterrupted measure­
ments with no opportunity for shared sensors. 
The measurement of weight loss by a shared 
pressure transducer has all of the desirable 
features of the aggregate measures but several Red and White Table Wines 207 
advantages over the previously mentioned 
methods. The weight (and changes in it) is 
independent of temperature and it does not 
need to be read continuously. Rather, reading 
the weight of the juice in a fermentor need 
only be performed every four to six hours at 
most, and a central transducer can be shared 
among many fermentors by using a gas bub­
bling and switching valve. The weight loss can 
be related to the change in density (and there­
fore values such as Brix, Baume, or Oechsle) 
given the initial weight and its density by an 
external analysis. 
The presence of skins and grape solids rep­
resent a constant background contribution to 
the weight that can be accounted for in the 
density estimation. The measurement is un­
likely to be affected by pump-overs unless they 
are in progress during a reading and values on 
either side of this can be used for detecting 
such a situation and correcting for it. The 
addition of juice to a tank can be corrected 
for if the composition of the juice being added 
is determined or, alternatively, if the tank is 
mixed and a new starting density is deter­
mined. The weight loss associated with the 
pressing of red skins can also be accounted for 
from readings before and after the event. 
Such a system for the direct measurement 
of wine fermentations has been developed and 
tested (Wheat 1991). The full-scale testing of 
this system was performed during the 1991 
harvest at a major winery in the Napa Valley. 
The automated and manual sampling mea­
surements for a 60,000-L fermentation are 
shown in Figure 5-6a. The fermentation had 
begun before the system was installed and the 
regions without measurements are due to 
power fluctuations external of the measure­
ment system. This represents the first direct 
fermentation measurements at the commer­
cial scale. 
b. The Real- Time Interpretation of 
Fermentation Behavior 
The direct fermentation measurements de­
scribed previously enable the interpretation of 208 Red and White Table Wines 
25~~~~--------------------------------~ 
20 
x 
~ 15 
5 
OL- __ L-__ L-__ L-__ ~ __ ~ __ ~ __ ~ __ ~ __ ~ __ ~ 
o 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 
Time (HOLrS) 
-- TransdJcer • MeaslXed 
(a) 
25 
20 
x 
~ 15 
>-.... ·iii 10 c 
OJ 0 
5 
0 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 
Time (I .... lours) Fig. 5-6. a) A comparison of on-line 
and manual fermentation measure­
ments. b) A comparison of model 
prediction and fermentation mea­
surements. - - Predicted • MeaSlXed 
the fermentation curves as they are develop­
ing. The interest in this is the accurate deter­
mination of the lag phase, the estimating of 
nutrient status early in the growth phase, the 
estimation of the maintenance activity of the 
yeast, and the prediction of heat release and 
expected completion times. 
These features can be estimated for each 
individual fermentation by the application of 
previously developed fermentation models 
(Boulton 1980) in what is referred to as pa­
rameter estimation. In this approach the model 
equations are integrated using initial guesses (b) 
of the lag time, specific growth rate, and main­
tenance rate of the yeast (the parameters in 
this case) and the numerical solution of the 
model is compared to the fermentation mea­
surements. The estimation algorithm then 
makes refined estimates of the parameters un­
til good agreement is obtained. This is usually 
done in a matter of minutes on a typical 
computer and it can be done without inter­
rupting the measurement program. The val­
ues can then be used to interpret the nutri­
tional status of the juice and the fermenting 
performance of the yeast population. The model prediction is compared to the measure­
ments of the 60,000 L fermentation in Figure 
5-6b. 
10. Fermentor and Tank Designs 
Fermentors usually differ from general storage 
tanks in several ways. There are particular 
aspects which relate to the filling with must, 
handling of skins, and temperature control 
that make the requirements of red fermentors 
somewhat different from those of white fer­
mentors. Ideally, fermentors should be de­
signed and selected so that they are general­
purpose units and can handle both red and 
white musts. The design requirements will be 
set by the need to handle skins and the rates 
of heat and CO 2 release of the red fermenta­
tions. 
a. Filling and Emptying 
For red wine fermentations, smaller fermen­
tors can be filled from the base, through a ball 
valve, rather than from the roof so as to mini­
mize the extent of solids generation. Larger 
fermentors, with larger valve ports, will usually 
be filled from the top from an overhead must 
line. The ball or guillotine valve to be used for 
musts should have a diameter of approxi­
mately twice that of the corresponding valve 
for juice alone. Similarly, if this valve is to be 
used for emptying the skins by sluicing the 
skins out of the fermentor into a juice sump, 
or a pomace pump, it should be at the lowest 
point of the base, and this is usually near the 
front door, especially for tanks with sloping 
floors. 
White musts can also be introduced through 
the red must valve (using a reducing fitting) or 
through the racking valve. The racking valve 
should be positioned at approximately 10% of 
the fermentor height from the base. This valve 
will usually be smaller in diameter since it will 
be used for liquids with some suspended pulp 
only. It is often offset to one side of the front 
of the tank and will sometimes be aligned so 
that it is tangential to the tank wall rather than Red and White Table Wines 209 
radially in toward the center to promote 
swirling or vortex motion during mixing. 
Other designs have used an inlet inclined to 
the horizontal in order to develop a helical 
flow pattern to provide some vertical mixing. 
The racking valve will be used for wine 
removal from the tank and is located above 
the base so as to minimize the solids drawn 
from the lees layer at the base of the fermen­
tor. In the case of the red fermentor, the 
racking valve will be used to draw juice/wine 
for the pump-over operations as well as the 
racking of the wine at the end of the fermen­
tation. As the wine is drawn off, the skin cap 
will move down the tank until no more wine 
can be racked. Small and medium-sized red 
fermentors will usually have a second door, 
(outward opening) located at about the same 
height as the racking valve which will then be 
opened to assist the removal of the skins by 
manual means. In larger fermentors this is 
often replaced by a screw conveyor in the base 
of the tank to remove the skins. 
b. Gas Venting 
It is not uncommon in large fermentors for 
the gas to be released suddenly, often during 
some agitation such as a pump-over operation, 
in what are referred to as foam-overs, where a 
liquid foam is actually blown out of the gas 
vents or roof door. One design rule is to size 
the gas vent system for 50% above the maxi­
mum expected gas release rate. Today, many 
of the vapor vents used are bidirectional in 
that they will not only permit gas venting 
during fermentation, but also ,allow air to en­
ter as the tank is being emptied to prevent the 
development of a vacuum that could collapse 
or damage the tank by implosion. 
c. Expansion and Contraction 
Wine undergoes thermal expansions (and con­
tractions) of approximately 0.2% per 10°C 
(l8°F) at 20°C. While this might seem small, it 
is significant, (2 per 1,000, 20 per 10,000, and 
200 per 100,000 volumes). Expansion risers 
and appropriate placement of the top access 210 Red and White Table Wines 
hole can account for this. They should be 
placed at the highest point of the tank so that 
headspace is not trapped inside the tank when 
it is completely full. If no expansion volume is 
provided and no appreciable headspace exists, 
the pressure of the expansion will easily ex­
ceed that needed to rupture the tank or cask. 
There are now several inert gas systems for 
maintaining headspace pressures that permit 
gas to leave the tank during liquid expansion 
and to enter during periods of contraction. 
With barrels, the expansion at the rate of 
0.1 % for a 5°C change corresponds to an 
expansion (or contraction) of approximately 
240 mL per barrel. Good temperature control 
during the storage of wine is not only of 
importance to the chemical stability of the 
wine but also to the physical integrity of the 
storage container and the minimization of 
barrel leaking associated with this. 
d. Headspace and Ullage 
The headspace in partially filled tanks is re­
ferred to as ullage and is of concern in terms 
of both surface deterioration where oxygen is 
present and the pitting of the steel by con­
densed droplets of wine vapor rich in sulfur 
dioxide. While one approach has been the 
development of the variable-volume tanks in 
which the roof is lowered to the wine surface, 
the more usual practice is to completely fill 
the tank whenever possible and to employ the 
expansion risers mentioned above. 
The use of inert gas in a partially filled tank 
certainly addresses the problem of oxidation, 
but it does not prevent the condensation of 
moisture on the walls. The headspace above a 
wine will reach saturation with respect to 
ethanol, water, and other volatiles shortly after 
filling. Even small changes in the ambient wall 
temperature either due to wine cooling or a 
fall in the ambient temperature will result in 
condensation. Wine with a free sulfur dioxide 
level will provide a vapor phase concentration 
of sulfur dioxide that causes the pH of the 
condensate to become acidic since it is only 
weakly buffered. This can result in attack of the oxide layer of the stainless steel, and point 
corrosion and pitting can occur at the 
headspace wall. 
e. Cleaning 
Almost all fermentors used in the U.S. wine 
industry are stainless steel (generally Type 308 
rather than 316, see Appendix C for a more 
detailed discussion of stainless steels) and the 
reason for this is the ease of cleaning this 
surface. The walls will often be coated with 
pigments, colloidal deposits, and tartrates after 
wine fermentations. This is especially true in 
the region of the cooling jacket and on the 
floor of the tank. Most wineries will employ 
one of several kinds of high-pressure spray 
cleaners to clean the fermentors and storage 
tanks. These spray units can be mounted on a 
tripod or stand that sits on the tank floor, and 
others have been suspended from the roof 
door in smaller tanks. Generally, cleaning be­
gins with a hot-water cycle followed by sanita­
tion with a 200-mg/L hypochlorite solution, 
and this is generally completed with a citric 
acid rinse solution. 
f. Fermentor Shapes 
The vast majority of fermentors are upright 
cylinders which are at least two diameters in 
height. Some have geometries of three to five 
diameters in height and this is usually due to 
floor space considerations. There are also 
many examples of square tanks and horizontal 
cylindrical tanks being used for fermentation. 
There is a variety of stands and support ar­
rangements for smaller tanks. Most fermentors 
have an inclined floor sloping toward the front, 
while others have hemispherical or domed 
bases. The use of conical-based fermentors has 
not been generally accepted despite some ad­
vantages in pomace discharge for red wines. 
The outlet pipe in the floor of the tank should 
be located at the lowest point so that any 
liquid (wine or rinsing solutions) will be free 
to drain without leaving a residual pool that 
could become a source of contamination or corrosion associated with the salt content and 
pH of the residue. 
One recent review of alternative fermentor 
designs with an emphasis in automated con­
trol has been made by Peyron and Feuillat 
(1985). 
g. Circulation Patterns 
Although it would be more predictable and 
reliable to have fermentations that are uni­
form in concentration, it is not a common 
practice to provide any mixing or stirring to 
fermenting wines. The only circumstance un­
der which this might arise is as a result of 
circulation through an external heat ex­
changer. 
As a result, most fermentors are mixed only 
by the natural convection circulations that will 
arise due to the momentum imparted by rising 
gas bubbles, and to a lesser extent, by the 
buoyancy effects of thermal convection cur­
rents. The thermal currents are generated by 
a warm, rising central core and cooler, de­
scending layers adjacent to the outside wall. 
These outer, down-flowing layers are acceler­
ated by the presence of a cooling jacket at the 
wall. The result is a toroid of fluid rotating by 
an upflow at the center and by a down flow at 
its outer circumference. 
The extent of the circulation is controlled 
by the size and geometry of the fermentor and 
the rate of fermentation. The most favored 
shape for this pattern is a cylinder which has a 
diameter twice its height. The resistance to the 
circulation comes from the viscous effects as­
sociated with the velocity gradients near the 
walls, and as the fermentor becomes taller 
than its diameter a much more restricted cir­
culation results. Fermentors which are several 
diameters tall, typically two to four diameters 
high, will have essentially no natural circula­
tion pattern, and mixing will be limited to the 
motion caused by the ascending bubbles. Un­
der these conditions the settling of yeast and 
suspended matter will be more extensive and 
the development of vertical concentration gra­
dients enhanced. They are usually chosen for 
reasons of floor space utilization. Red and White Table Wines 211 
B. WHITE TABLE WINES 
1. Styles of White Table Wines 
White wine styles range from the aromatic 
fruit styles typified by most Riesling, 
Gewiirztraminer, and Muscat wines to the bar­
rel-aged, yeasty, and malolactic emphasis in 
many Chardonnays. These represent the ex­
tremes of wines dominated by cultivar at­
tributes and grape composition and those 
whose main features come from winemaking 
treatments and nongrape materials. There are 
many white wine styles that fall between the 
extremes, some will be made to show fruit 
characteristics and others will be made to em­
phasize treatment effects, while still others will 
be made to show distinctive character only 
after some period of bottle aging. 
Another important aspect of the style for 
white wines is whether there is to be signifi­
cant residual sugar in the wine. The fermenta­
tion can be arrested with some level of sugar 
remaining by one of several ways and these 
include quickly lowering the wine temperature 
to 5°C or below, centrifuging, or a course and 
sterile filtration combination. The presence of 
residual sugar has an immediate bearing on 
the approach to clarification following fer­
mentation, the maintenance of adequate free 
sulfur dioxide levels, and the extent to which 
the malolactic fermentation is discouraged. 
While some wines have significant residual 
sugar when bottled, they are often made as dry 
wines with a small juice addition just prior to 
bottling. This greatly reduces the chance of 
microbial growth during aging and storage so 
that the time between the juice addition and 
membrane filtration is as short as possible. 
The complications and differences of opin­
ion begin to arise when traditional European 
cultivars are grown in regions throughout the 
world and produce different degrees of vari­
etal intensity, sometimes with more distinctive 
character than that normally seen in their 
traditional settings. The widespread practice 
of making and marketing varietal wines has 
posed dilemmas for many wine makers as to 212 Red and White Table Wines 
the extent to which fruit character should 
compete with winemaking treatments in the 
structure of a varietal wine. As a result there 
are many varietal wines which are made in the 
wine treatment style, and the importance of 
cultivar, appellation, and vintage are more re­
lated to birthright and marketing considera­
tions than flavor attributes of the bottled wine. 
This is no better illustrated than by the com­
mon styles of California Chardonnay and the 
extent to which it can easily be mimicked in 
almost any part of the world using present 
winemaking techniques. The pursuit of such 
styles, while popular among some groups, has 
little, if anything, to gain from viticultural or 
enological techniques that enhance or capture 
fruit characteristics and has little relationship 
to the appellation or vintage. 
The style in which some wines are made in 
New World countries today is considerably in­
fluenced by the opinions or personal prefer­
ences of some wine writers rather than by any 
regard to traditional styles or varietal charac­
teristics. The emphasis in the following sec­
tions is on describing the basis for the many 
alternative treatments available to winemakers 
to pursue whatever style they please. 
2. The Effect of Skin Contact 
The effects of skin and seed extraction on the 
coarseness and astringency of white wines has 
long been understood. This was especially ob­
vious in the press fractions from presses whose 
design permitted skin tearing and the exces­
sive browning of the corresponding wines. The 
move toward fruitier white wines in the mid 
1970s led to the development of highly clari­
fied juices that experienced little skin contact 
and were essentially free of grape pulp during 
the fermentation (Singleton et al. 1975). In 
white wines containing sugar, this is prefer­
able, since sugar, acidity, and grape flavors 
form the main components of the mouth feel 
and the wines are generally not aged further 
in wooden cooperage. In wines that are to be 
aged, there is a need for somewhat higher 
phenolic content, and this led to the introduc-tion of controlled conditions of skin contact 
prior to fermentation. 
The importance of the press fractions to 
the development of mouth feel and aging po­
tential is well recognized in the production of 
sparkling wines and this is discussed further in 
Section D of this chapter. 
The main interest in the use of skin contact 
was to generate the phenolics responsible for 
the development of aged character without 
the additional tannin and astringency associ­
ated with the press fractions. The fresh must 
would be transferred into a fermentor and 
allowed to undergo natural extraction for pe­
riods ranging from six to 24 hours. The juice 
is then drawn off, settled if necessary, and 
fermented in the usual ways. Studies of the 
changes in a number of aroma and phenolic 
components have shown that significant 
changes in composition occur during this time 
(Ramey et al. 1986). The actual practice gave 
rise to considerable variation in the effects 
obtained since few wineries took steps to con­
trol the contacting temperature and the im­
portance of contact time was generally empha­
sized. 
The widespread adoption of machine har­
vesting of grapes in the late 1970s provided 
conditions in which some skin contact was 
usually unavoidable and the extent of the 
practice at the winery was reduced accord­
ingly. The introduction and adoption of the 
membrane presses in which skin tearing and 
seed attrition were essentially eliminated en­
abled the more desirable press fractions to be 
obtained without the usual tannin concentra­
tions. These press fractions were very similar 
to the juices produced by skin contact and 
much easier to produce and control. As a 
result, the practice of deliberate, extended 
skin contact is rarely used anymore. 
Under certain conditions, the extraction 
from skins cannot be well controlled, and the 
interest in lowering the astringency and 
browning potential of the finished wine gave 
rise to the deliberate oxidation of the juice, 
sometimes referred to as hyperoxidation. In this 
treatment, the natural grape phenoloxidase is used to promote the oxidation and polymer­
ization of juice phenolics prior to fermenta­
tion. This is said to reduce the astringency and 
browning of the finished wine since a signifi­
cant fraction of the juice phenols can be oxi­
dized and their products will precipitate dur­
ing the ethanol fermentation. The resulting 
wines are usually higher in straw and golden 
colors (Cheynier et al. 1990). The extent to 
which this objective can be achieved is depen­
dent on the natural enzyme activity and the 
concentrations of the substrates that it prefers. 
A more detailed discussion of this treatment 
can be found in Section 3d of Chapter 3. 
There are few sensory studies of the effect on 
varietal character and the practice is rarely 
used in California. 
The effects of fermentation and other wine­
making actions on the levels of terpene 
volatiles have been studied in both Muscat 
(Gunata et al. 1986) and Gewiirztraminer 
(Marais 1987), even though these components 
are generally present at concentrations well 
above threshold levels. 
3. Role of Suspended Solids 
The presence of the grape pulp that remains 
in a white juice after clarification is usually 
significant for a number of reasons. There are 
concerns about the further extraction of as­
tringency during fermentation, the presence 
of significant oxidative enzyme activity in the 
pulp, the interference in the formation of 
fermentation bouquet, and the effects that this 
pulp can have on the rate and extent of the 
ethanol fermentation (Singleton et al. 1975; 
Tromp 1984). 
The concentration of grape solids in many 
settled juices and most drained juices is of the 
order of 1 to 2% by volume. At this level there 
is unlikely to be significant extraction com­
pared to that obtained by prior skin contact 
and the press fractions. The ability of the 
enzyme to contribute to oxidation ceases as 
soon as the dissolved oxygen is depleted. Most 
juices will consume at least one saturation of 
oxygen in handling, but unless the juice is Red and White Table Wines 213 
deliberately aerated, further oxygen dissolu­
tion is limited. The other important aspect 
involves the role of these (and other) solids on 
the rate of fermentation. 
In the mid 1970s wine makers began to pre­
pare cleaner juices in order to emphasize the 
varietal character and a higher incidence of 
sluggish and incomplete fermentations began 
to appear (Wucherpfennig and Bretthauer 
1970). Early studies in Germany, Schanderl 
(1959), had shown that in some juices the 
removal of suspended pulp by fining with 
gelatin or filtering caused much slower fer­
mentation rates, but that by adding diatoma­
ceous earth it fermented even faster than the 
original juice. 
One common explanation of these findings 
was that the pulp was a source of additional 
yeast or yeast nutrients, and that clarification 
led to lower cell counts or poorer nutrient 
levels in some juices (Houtman and Du Plessis 
1986). However, this could not explain the 
enhancement in rate that was observed by the 
addition of the diatomaceous earth (Schanderl 
1959), bentonite (Groat and Ough 1978), yeast 
hulls (Geniex et al. 1983) or cellulose (Larue 
et al. 1985; Minarik et al. 1992). Another ex­
planation was that the solids were providing 
nucleation sites for the development of carbon 
dioxide bubbles, carrying with them clumps of 
yeast in a rafting action. A correlation between 
the suspended viable yeast count and the fer­
mentation rate was considered to be the cause 
of the faster fermentations (Groat and Ough 
1978), although others consider it to be an 
effect. Others suggested that the supersatu­
rated solution of carbon dioxide was in­
hibitory to yeast growth (Siebert et al. 1986), 
and that the presence of suspended solids 
helped to remove the level of supersaturation, 
thereby enabling faster fermentations. How­
ever, the effect of supersaturation levels of 
carbon dioxide on fermentation rate at nor­
mal pressures is slight, if at all, until pressures 
of several atmospheres are reached (Chen and 
Gutamis 1976), well above that which could 
exist during wine fermentations. Perhaps the 
two most important features of all of these 214 Red and White Table Wines 
studies are that they were all performed on a 
small scale (of different volumes and geome­
tries) and generally un agitated, other than by 
the natural convection currents created by 
bubble evolution. 
There is generally a poor correspondence 
between the small-scale fermentation rates of 
white juices and those at the commercial scale, 
even with the same juice. This paradox is 
added to by the conflicting results that were 
reported by various researchers on the extent 
to which clarification can affect fermentation 
rates and the response due to the levels of 
natural grape pulp (Ribereau-Gayon 1953; 
Williams et al. 1978) or the addition of such 
solids as bentonite (Ough and Amerine 1965; 
Groat and Ough 1978), diatomaceous earth 
(Schanderl 1959; Thornton and Rodriguez 
1986), activated carbon (Siebert et al. 1986), 
yeast hulls (Lafon-Lafourcade et al. 1985; 
Sponholz et al. 1990; Minarik et al. 1992), and 
colloidal or crystalline polysaccharides (Van 
Wyk 1978; Larue et al. 1985; Lonvaud-Funel et 
al. 1985; Thornton and Rodriguez 1986; Ax­
cell et al. 1988; Minarik et al. 1992). 
The role of the suspended solids grew more 
complicated as investigations began to study 
the formation of acetate esters, higher alco­
hols, and other fermentation byproducts 
(Crowell and Guymon 1963; Wucherpfennig 
and Bretthauer 1969; Ribereau-Gayon et al. 
1975; Fetteroll and Wurdig 1977; Williams et 
al. 1978; Groat and Ough 1978; Van Wyk 
1978; Marino et al. 1983; Ribereau-Gayon 
1985; Amati 1986) whose formation is gener­
ally considered to be altered by the level of 
amino nitrogen, specific amino acids, and vita­
mins present in the juice. 
An alternative and more general explana­
tion of these results is that the solids are acting 
as adsorbers to which a range of juice compo­
nents are attracted and held at concentrated 
levels. If a juice was deficient in one of the 
adsorbed nutrients, a stimulation in growth 
rate and/or byproduct formation could be 
expected if a significant number of yeasts grew 
in the presence of the solid surface. If, how­
ever, the juice has adequate concentrations of all nutrients, no growth rate enhancement 
would be expected although small changes in 
byproduct formation might be expected due 
to compositional changes near the solid sur­
face. The adsorption of other components 
such as the fatty acid by various solids is to be 
expected and has been shown for the yeast 
hulls (Ribereau-Gayon 1985), but this should 
occur in all juices and is probably not the 
reason for the observed effects in certain 
juices. Bentonite is known to be a weak cation 
exchanger with some preference for cationic 
solutes such as amino acids, and perhaps for 
thiamin and biotin. One study of the adsorp­
tion of amino acids from a juice by diatoma­
ceous earth (Tercelj 1965) showed successive 
reductions in most amino acids with additional 
filtrations even if under exaggerated propor­
tion of the earth to the juice. 
If this adsorption picture is further tested, 
the removal of the solids should lead to a weak 
but significant depletion in the levels of the 
adsorbed components. This would be ex­
pected to amplify a nutritional deficiency when 
one exists and to have little if any effect in 
adequate juices. There are some anecdotal 
examples of this occurring and at least two 
studies have shown much poorer fermentation 
completion due to bentonite additions to juices 
(Bach and Hoffmann 1979; Vos and Gray 
1979), and these support the view that nutri­
ent depletion had actually occurred. These 
effects would also be juice dependent and this 
is probably why there are conflicting conclu­
sions in different studies. The adsorption pic­
ture would also predict that at higher addi­
tions of the solids, the concentrations at the 
solid surface would be lower and the effects 
would be less. This has been reported for the 
formation of fatty acid esters in the presence 
of grape solids (Houtman and Du Plessis 1981, 
1986) and for the same group in the presence 
of yeast hulls (Ribereau-Gayon 1985). 
Four features of this explanation which are 
well supported by general experience are: (1) 
not all juices benefit from the additions; (2) 
there is often an increase in cell populations 
associated with the addition; (3) there are sev-eral studies which show clear modifications in 
the pattern of trace byproduct formation in 
the presence of the solids; and (4) the effects 
do not continue as higher concentrations of 
the solid are used. The enhancement of fer­
mentation can only occur in juices in which a 
growth limitation exists, and it is not surpris­
ing that some authors have not been able to 
reproduce the findings of others since they 
have been using different juices. 
The enhancement of fermentation rates and 
extent of completion in some juices have often 
been attributed to a number of factors, but the 
general feature of nutrient adsorption has not 
been among them. 
The effects that have been demonstrated 
have only been seen in unstirred, bench-scale 
fermentations and there are apparently no 
reports of such effects in commercial fermen­
tors. One of the differences in small-scale, 
un stirred fermentations is the significant role 
of gravity in the settling of added yeast within 
the first 8 to 10 hours. This usually results in a 
far higher concentration of yeast in the lower 
fraction of the juice, often two or more times 
the usual concentration. When yeast growth 
begins there is a good possibility of local nutri­
ent deletion and quite different growth history 
to that found in either moderately stirred or 
commercial-scale fermentors. The role of sus­
pended solids seems to be an influence on the 
extent of this yeast settling effect. 
Recent studies in juices (Guell and Boulton 
1994) have shown that the effects of sus­
pended solids (bentonite, diatomaceous earth, 
colloidal polysaccharide, carbon and cellulose 
acetate) on the rate of fermentation are only 
significant when the juice is not stirred and 
that the fastest rates were always obtained when 
concentration gradients were eliminated and 
the yeasts were kept in uniform suspension. 
4. The Effect of Fermentation 
Temperature 
The contribution of the fermentation temper­
ature to white wine aroma is directly related to 
the retention of grape-based aromas and for-Red and -white Table Wines 215 
mation of the group of volatile byproducts 
referred to as fermentation bouquet (see Chapter 
4 for a more detailed discussion of the com­
pounds concerned). The second group of 
components is formed in clarified juices by 
most strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae provided 
the temperature is controlled at 20°C or be­
low. This is generally desirable in young, fruit­
style wines, but the esters produced will hydro­
lyze within a matter of months unless the wine 
is stored at low temperatures. 
The fermentation temperature for most 
white wines is in the range of 18°C to 24°C and 
there is little interest in fermenting at higher 
temperatures due to the progressive loss of 
volatiles under these conditions. In barrel fer­
mentations beginning at 18°C, the tempera­
ture will usually rise to a peak of 22°C in 
midfermentation (Figure 5-2) before returning 
to the cellar temperature. The fermentation of 
white wines in larger wooden cooperage leads 
to higher peak temperatures as described in 
Section A.5 above, and is not widely practiced. 
While there are additional effects of fer­
mentation temperature on the formation of 
glycerol (Ough and Amerine 1965) and the 
higher alcohols (Ough et al. 1966), these are 
generally at less than threshold levels and the 
effects are insignificant from a sensory point 
of view. The formation of higher alcohols is of 
interest in the production of base wines for 
distillation and this is discussed in further de­
tail in Section E. 
5. The Malolactic Fermentation 
The practice of conducting the malolactic fer­
mentation in white wines is based on its tradi­
tional occurrence in wines during barrel aging 
in some regions for reasons of acidity adjust­
ment. In other regions, it is discouraged and 
considered undesirable when fruit character is 
a major attribute of the wine style. 
Within contemporary Chardonnay styles, 
there is a variation in which the malolactic 
fermentation is sought for reasons of flavor 
and mouth feel rather than for reasons of 
deacidification. The alternative of having con-216 Red and lWlite Table Wines 
current malolactic fermentations is now com­
mon, in part to minimize the random varia­
tions of these contributions to the sensory 
aspects of the wine. The ability to ensure con­
current malolactic fermentation has been 
greatly increased with the advances in the 
commercial availability of bacterial starter 
cultures. 
Generally this fermentation is not encour­
aged in other white wines such as varietal 
Sauvignon blanc, Chenin blanc, and the ter­
pene cultivars Riesling, Gewiirztraminer, and 
the Muscats. It is prevented by immediate clar­
ification following the ethanol fermentation 
and the addition of sulfur dioxide to protec­
tive levels. The microbiology of the 
fermentation is discussed in more detail in 
Chapter 6. 
6. Postfermentation Handling 
At the end of the ethanol fermentation, the 
wine treatments will depend considerably on 
the extent to which further microbial activity 
is to be discouraged, the desire for sur lies 
contact, the aging pattern to be followed, and 
the level of residual sugar in the wine. Wine 
for sur lies contact will be transferred to a 
barrel with yeast lees, while those fermented 
in the barrel will be topped on the existing 
lees. 
In many cases there will be adjustment of 
the sulfur dioxide levels to prevent further 
microbial activity such as additional bacterial 
action or the development of spoilage yeast. 
The sulfur dioxide will play a secondary role 
in the quenching of hydrogen peroxide that 
will be produced as a byproduct of certain 
oxidation reactions, even though its ability to 
compete for oxygen is practically nonexistent. 
7. Aging and Sur Lies 
The aging options range from placing clean 
wines into barrels, to placing wines with their 
yeast and some grape solids into the barrels 
(sur lies), to placing wines into larger cooper­
age and stainless steel tanks. There is often a 
hybrid of treatments with different wines that will form the basis of a blend or some distribu­
tion between the options with the same wine. 
The sur lies approach provides the condi­
tions, primarily several months of yeast con­
tact, for many components within the yeast to 
leak into the wine. This is usually not actual 
autolysis in which the cell membrane is rup­
tured and the entire cellular contents are re­
leased (Feuillat and Charpentier 1982). The 
time required for autolysis is generally consid­
ered to be close to a year rather than the sur 
lies contact of three to six months. The resul­
tant wines have a distinctive aroma that is 
usually recognizable and it has become an­
other variation of contemporary Chardonnay 
styles. There are examples of the addition of 
fresh yeast and of periodic stirring of the lees, 
but there appear to be no reports indicating 
significant effects due to these treatments. 
White wines will be much more sensitive to 
oxygen exposure than will red wines and there 
is a need for more careful handling during the 
aging period (Singleton 1987; Cilliers and Sin­
gleton 1990). The use of ascorbic acid as an 
oxygen-consuming additive has particular con­
cerns in the barrel aging of white wines due to 
the possibility of acetaldehyde production 
(Wildenradt and Singleton 1974). This reac­
tion is discussed in more detail in Chapter 10. 
Following the aging or storage period the 
wines will generally be tested for several physi­
cal instabilities and treated as needed to 
ensure that these do not occur following 
bottling. 
8. Continuous and Batch-Fed 
Fermentations 
One example of special fermentation condi­
tions that is interesting to consider is the case 
of the so-called syruped fermentations. These 
are produced by making several successive ad­
ditions of fresh juice during the actual fer­
mentation. The additions can be of the order 
of 10 to 25% by volume and several are made 
during the course of the fermentation. The 
result is the production of wines of much 
higher alcohol (typically 16 to 18% v/v) by fermentation rather than by fortification. This 
would enable more distinctive fortified wines 
of higher extract (in particular glycerol) to be 
made since all of the ethanol would be pro­
duced by fermentation. 
The fermentations also pose some challeng­
ing questions to some common beliefs con­
cerning the ability of yeast to remain viable 
and to ferment at these higher ethanol levels. 
While the term ethanol tolerance is often men­
tioned in regard to yeast strains and problem 
fermentations, it has been demonstrated that 
common wine yeast can complete fermenta­
tions at 18% v Iv ethanol under the syruped 
conditions (Hohl and Cruess 1936; Hohl 1938). 
The syruped fermentation is somewhat akin to 
the fermentation producing sake in which the 
starch and protein of the rice mash are being 
hydrolyzed by enzymes from one particular 
yeast while a Saccharomyces strain is fermenting 
the glucose produced into ethanol. There is 
an ongoing release of amino acids as the rice 
protein is hydrolyzed, and this permits contin­
ued yeast growth throughout most of the fer­
mentation. The same effect occurs in the juice 
additions of a syruped fermentation, but there 
is an additional effect due to the dilution of 
ethanol by the fresh juice volume. 
The effect of making a juice addition to a 
fermentation can be analyzed by considering a 
starting sugar concentration of 210 giL. When 
the fermentation has reached 140 giL (and is 
approximately 33 giL in ethanol), less than 
20% of the original assimilable amino acid 
content will be remaining and the yeasts are 
approaching the transition phase. An addition 
of 20% of the same juice causes the sugar 
concentration to increase by [Sj * 0.2 + 
Sw * 0.8] to 154 giL. In the process, the ethanol 
is diluted by [E * 0.8] to 26.5 giL and the 
amino acid (and other nutrient) pool is in­
creased by [AA j *0.2 + AAw *0.8] to 36% of 
the initial value. The effect on the nutrient 
concentrations is the most pronounced on a 
percentage basis and a higher and younger 
yeast population is encouraged under slightly Red and White Table Wines 217 
lower inhibition of ethanol but with almost 
twice the nutrient concentrations. As a result, 
more of the fermentation occurs by the growth 
activity and less by the maintenance activity, 
without relying on the viability of a smaller, 
stationary-phase cell population for the com­
pletion of the fermentation. 
The production of fortified wines in this 
way would still require a spirit addition to 
achieve a desired level of 21 % ethanol by 
volume. The quantity of spirit would be much 
less, the dilution of flavor components would 
be proportionately lower, and the rise in pH 
would be less than that under the usual forti­
fication scheme. 
C. LATE-HARVEST WINES 
The term late hamest is used in the context of 
grapes whose harvesting has been delayed to 
allow or encourage the growth of molds such 
as Botrytis cinerea. Such grapes undergo a num­
ber of compositional changes ranging from 
simple concentration due to dehydration, mi­
crobial modification of tartaric acid and some 
phenolic, the production of several unusual 
keto acids (Wurdig and Schlotter 1969), en­
zymes such as laccase (Dubernet et al. 1977), 
and polysaccharides such as the f3 1-3 glucan 
(Dubourdieu et al. 1981). Recently, an en­
zyme-linked assay for the detection of Botrytis 
cinerea has been developed (Ricker et al. 1991) 
which may aid in the quantification of the 
level of infection in future fermentation stud­
Ies. 
The sugar content of juices for botryized 
grapes is much higher than that normally ob­
tained by sugar accumulation. They are often 
in the 250 to 300 giL level, and these provide 
unusual conditions for yeast growth and fer­
mentation. The resulting wines have aroma 
attributes that are very characteristic and 
sought after. In addition, the breaking of the 
berry skin leads to significant reductions in the 
levels of most amino acids and vitamins by the 
mold and other organisms. 218 Red and White Table Wines 
1. Laccase Activity 
The lac case enzyme is a more general and 
active enzyme than phenoloxidase and is un­
usual in that it is not inhibited by sulfur diox­
ide at the levels used in winemaking. The 
enzyme can use anthocyanins and some pro­
cyanidins as substrates and its activity, al­
though reduced, continues in the wine after 
fermentation. While there have been a num­
ber of methods proposed for the measure­
ment of the laccase activity, the simplest pro­
cedure is the measurement of oxygen con­
sumption by the juice in the presence of 50 to 
75 mglL sulfur dioxide. The sulfur dioxide 
will almost completely inhibit the phenoloxi­
dase activity but will have little effect on the 
laccase activity. 
The important fermentation consideration 
of laccase activity in these juices is that be­
cause of its ability to consume dissolved oxy­
gen it poses a special challenge in the supply 
of adequate oxygen for the yeast inoculum. 
The most effective means of controlling its 
activity is the lowering of juice temperature to 
10°C to 12°C and juice aeration should be 
delayed until this has occurred. 
The wine will also need to be held at lower 
than usual temperatures (5°C to lOOC) and 
handled with inert gas during storage to mini­
mize the enzyme activity until the point of 
bottling. 
2. Nutrient Status 
The growth of the mold will consume some 
amino acids and a significant portion of the 
vitamin pool as it develops its colony on the 
berries. The depletion of the vitamins is usu­
ally larger on a percentage basis since these 
are generally at the tens and hundreds of 
micrograms per liter rather than the tens and 
hundreds of milligram per liter of most amino 
acids. This, together with the enhanced forma­
tion of sulfite-binding products, such as pyru­
vic and a-keto-glutaric acids, means that a 
more complete supplement of nutrients will 
be required for a satisfactory fermentation. 
The addition of thiamin, biotin and pan-tothenic acid, and nitrogen sources to juices is 
discussed in Section E.1 of Chapter 3. 
3. Fermentation Temperature 
As previously mentioned, the usual practice 
will be to ferment these juices at colder tem­
peratures, in part to minimize the effects of 
laccase activity on the initial oxygen concen­
tration, also for the retention of the aroma of 
the distinctive constituents in these juices. 
The fermentations of late-harvest juices are 
generally slower than expected due to the 
slowing of the rate of yeast growth by substrate 
inhibition. The yeast fermentation is fastest at 
glucose or fructose contents of 60 giL and 
below (Hopkins and Roberts 1935a, 1935b). At 
the concentrations typically found in late­
harvest juices (250 to 300 giL), the fermenta­
tion rate would be expected to be at least 20% 
slower due to the sugar concentration alone. 
This will be in addition to the effects of colder 
fermentation temperatures and the probability 
of being deficient in one or more nutrients. 
As a result, it is common for these fermen­
tations to continue for six to eight weeks be­
fore fermentation ceases. The cessation of the 
fermentation will occur when there are no 
viable yeast remaining. This point is reached 
shortly after the rate of cell death exceeds the 
rate of cell growth and the viable population 
has fallen to zero. The death rate is influenced 
by the ethanol concentration and tempera­
ture, while the growth rate is controlled by 
inhibitions due to the prevailing sugar and 
ethanol concentration and the availability if 
nutrients, typically assimilable nitrogen. As a 
result, there is considerable variation in the 
final sugar and ethanol concentrations in wines 
of this kind. 
4. Postfermentation Handling 
The possibility of significant lac case actIvIty 
after fermentation requires that these wines be 
handled in a strictly anaerobic manner. They 
will usually be stored in stainless steel rather 
than small wooden cooperage and held at low storage temperatures with an inert gas 
headspace. 
The wines from such mold-infected grapes 
are also higher than usual in polysaccharide 
content due to more extensive cell wall degra­
dation. The implications for wine treatments 
involve the more difficult filtration of these 
wines especially with nominallysterile pads and 
membranes. The application of the glucanase 
enzymes to enhance such filtration has been 
demonstrated (Wucherpfennig and Dietrich 
1982; Villettaz et al. 1984), and this is 
discussed in more detail in Section E.3.f of 
Chapter 3. 
D. PREPARING BASE WINES FOR 
SPARKLING WINE 
The preparation of base wines for the produc­
tion of sparkling wine has several unique fea­
tures that differ from those of white table 
wines. There will be some variations in style 
within this group due to the exclusion or 
otherwise of the malolactic fermentation and 
the extent of aging some components in 
wooden cooperage. The following section will 
be restricted to the juice preparation and fer­
mentation conditions rather than all aspects of 
the production of sparkling wines. 
1. Direct Pressing 
The juices for sparkling wines are typically 
generated without crushing and the grape 
clusters or partially broken fruit and juice are 
conveyed directly into the press. This is true 
for both white and colored grapes and they 
will be handled in the same manner from this 
point on. The distinction between free-run 
and the press fractions is less obvious under 
these conditions since much of the berry 
breakage only begins after the press cycle has 
begun. There is considerable importance given 
to the press cuts that are taken and these are 
often clarified and fermented separately. The 
phenolic content and aging potential of the 
second cut is often given more importance 
than the first cut in such wines. Red and White Table Wines 219 
The juices are usually clarified by centrifug­
ing or filtration and cooled prior to fermenta­
tion. The quantity of sulfur dioxide employed 
at the juice stage ranges from none at all to 50 
mg/L and the low pH of these juices (2.8 to 
3.0) favors the molecular form and the use of 
lower sulfur dioxide levels for antibacterial 
action. There are variations in the extent to 
which juice aeration and must oxidation are 
practiced as style factors, but the general ap­
proach is one of juice protection for multiple 
oxygen saturations. 
2. Primary Fermentation 
Most base wines are fermented at tempera­
tures in the range of 18°C to 22°C in order to 
have swift fermentations without the obvious 
formation of fermentation bouquet, yet warm 
enough to retain most of the grape volatiles. It 
is not traditional to have concurrent malolac­
tic fermentations in these wines, it is usually 
encouraged in the wines after fermentation 
when desired. 
The yeasts employed are selected to favor 
neutral characteristics since much of the com­
ponents of the traditional style will come from 
treatments to the young wines and the yeast 
contact of the second fermentation. Yeast se­
lection has generally been based on the mini­
mization of esters and of sulfite and sulfide 
formation. 
3. Secondary Fermentation 
The base wine will often be stabilized and a 
sugar and nutrient mix with an inoculum will 
be added to initiate the second fermentation 
in the bottle (for the methode Champenoise and 
transfer method). The yeast growth will be 
limited to usually one division before it is 
inhibited by ethanol and carbon dioxide pres­
sure, while the remainder of the sugar is fer­
mented by yeast in the stationary phase. For 
this reason more attention has been directed 
toward the fermentation condition of the yeast 
inoculum in these wines (Monk and Storer 
1986; Malfeito-Ferreira et al. 1990). The effect 
of pressure is primarily on the growth rate of 220 Red and White Table Wines 
the yeasts rather than on their fermentation 
rate. The fermentation rate is unaffected by 
pressure up to approximately five atmospheres 
(Chen and Gutamis 1976). 
The laborious process of riddling in which 
the yeast sediment is edged down toward the 
neck of the bottle has been circumvented by 
the introduction of immobilized yeast in algi­
nate beads (Bidan et al. 1978) and on solid 
supports (Muller-Spath 1982; Coulon et al. 
1983). While early practical difficulties associ­
ated with this approach involved the uniform 
inoculation of bottles, the process has been 
adopted to some degree by a number of com­
panies. 
A related development for the production 
of large volumes of sparkling wines has been 
the application of two to three fermentors in 
which the yeast are immobilized onto a bed of 
wood chips. The base wines are passed through 
the fermentors in a continuous manner while 
under pressure and bottled soon after. 
E. PREPARING WINES TO BE 
DISTILLED 
Wines to be distilled have special require­
ments that differ significantly from those to be 
prepared as table wines. The main aim is to 
minimize the concentration of acetaldehyde 
that will carry over in the first vapors to be­
come a defect in the new distillate. A second 
aim is to discourage the formation of acetate 
esters, and a third is to prevent the malolactic 
fermentation in the young wine. Some of these 
requirements have led to the development of 
viticultural conditions that favor the prepara­
tion of low-pH, low-ethanol, neutral young 
wines. The use of primarily one cultivar (Ugni 
blanc) in most of the Cognac region and the 
heavy cropping of these vines have led to 
juices that only reach moderate sugar levels 
and are low in potassium and, therefore, pH. 
1. Juice Preparation 
The juices are not treated with sulfur dioxide 
since it will increase the quantity of acetalde-hyde retained in the young wine. There is 
little concern for juice oxidation, even the 
solids content of the juice is quite high bv 
wine standards, and the phenoloxidase would 
be expected to be quite active. In the absence 
of sulfur dioxide additions, even to the newly 
fermented wines, the discouragement of bac­
terial activity in young wines that are held on 
the lees prior to distillation is left to the natu­
rally low pH and wine storage temperature. 
The juices are prepared by direct pressing 
of the clusters and all of the press fractions are 
combined and fermented. The relatively high 
solids content and somewhat aerobic juice 
handling have been shown to lead to higher 
levels of the fusel oils during fermentation 
(Crowell and Guymon 1963), and this a desir­
able feature of these wines. 
2. Fermentation Temperature 
The juices are fermented at temperatures in 
the range of 20°C to 25°C and in the presence 
of grape solids to provide a swift fermentation 
and yet to avoid the formation of significant 
acetate ester character. The final ethanol con­
tent will usually be in the range of 7 to 9% by 
volume. The fermentations are generally 
spontaneous in Cognac but the use of se­
lected, low-sulfite strains would seem to pro­
vide advantages in more rapid and complete 
fermentations and lower final aldehyde levels. 
The wines will be distilled shortly after the 
fermentation has been completed or as the 
stills become available. 
3. Retention of Yeast Lees 
The wines are not racked and the wine lees 
are mixed and transferred into the stills for 
distillation. There will be a range of fatty acid 
esters that are released from the yeast during 
distillation and these have positive sensory at­
tributes in the new distillates and the aged 
spirits. The discouragement of the malolactic 
fermentation seems to be to minimize the 
formation of diacetyl and ethyl acetate and 
their presence in the young distillate. The 
wine lees would also contain the spent bacte-rial culture and this is likely to release addi­
tional quantities of these components during 
distillation. 
F. RED TABLE WINES 
The composition of a wine is predetermined 
by the initial composition of the grapes and 
subsequently determined by the particular 
treatments that it undergoes during the wine­
making sequence. The combination of the ef­
fects of grape cultivar and maturity, must han­
dling, fermentation conditions, microbial con­
trol, aging, and other treatments constitute 
the style in which the wine is made. 
1. Styles of Red Table Wines 
Red wine styles can range from those which 
reflect the composition of the grape to those 
which reflect the winemaking treatments that 
it will receive following the fermentation. The 
factors influencing composition such as the 
cultivar, the location, and manipulation of the 
vineyard and the growing season are of utmost 
importance in the first style while the postfer­
mentation handling, age and type of cooper­
age, and length of the aging period are of 
utmost importance in the second style. The 
winemaking options which can contribute to 
both styles involve the management of the 
fermentation and extraction flavor and pheno­
lics by the choice of temperature, juice and 
skin contact, and the timing of pressing. 
The variations in winemaking approaches 
to juice and skin contact involve the partial 
crushing of clusters, destemming, and the 
transfer of some whole berries into the fer­
mentor along with the must and the less com­
mon practice of retaining part or all of the 
stems in the must. The extent to which whole 
berries are included can vary from 10 to 50%, 
but typically is in the region of 15 to 20%. The 
practice of stem retention varies with the con­
dition of the stems, which can show wide sea­
sonal variation, and is generally less than 50% 
when used. The stems can cause significant Red and White Table Wines 221 
color loss due to anthocyanin adsorption, but 
they also contribute to the tannin extraction 
and provide a different phenol pattern than 
that generally contributed by the skins and 
seeds. The dry woody stems of some cultivars 
can contribute herbaceous aromas to the wine, 
but, in general, the stems are considered to be 
of little value or a negative influence. 
A contrasting approach is the use of car­
bonic maceration in which crushing is mini­
mized or avoided entirely. Instead, the clusters 
are placed inside the fermentor either stacked 
in trays or dumped in with a minimum of 
breakage. This approach is considered in more 
detail in Section 9 of this chapter. The result­
ing wine is lighter in color and phenolic ex­
traction than those made in the traditional, 
crushed-berry contacting method, and it pos­
sesses characteristic aromas due to the treat­
ment. The method requires hand-picked fruit, 
free of mold, and the ability to hold the grapes 
at temperatures of 20°C to 25°C for several 
days. 
2. Juice, Skin, and Seed Contacting 
Of the phenols that are found in the seed and 
skins of grapes, less than half them will be 
available for extraction into the wine. The 
proportion of the anthocyan ins and total phe­
nols that were extracted into the wine varied 
between 20 to 30% depending on the cultivar 
and vineyard location. In one study, Cabernet 
Sauvignon grapes were found to contain 1.4 
mg of phenols, 4.3 mg of anthocyanin per g of 
fresh berries, yet only 27 and 28% of these are 
extracted into the resultant wines (Van Balen 
1984). Similar variations have also been re­
ported with Pinot noir (Siegrist 1985). 
The contacting method employed will have 
a significant effect on the rate and a lesser 
effect on the extent of extraction, and a wine­
maker may adopt a particular contacting ap­
proach based on previous experience with the 
grapes to be used. Within each of the follow­
ing contacting approaches there are nuances 
that can be introduced in an attempt to either 
enhance or diminish the natural variations in 222 Red and White Table Wines 
composition between the cultivars, but the 
composition is generally not known before the 
extraction occurs. 
One additional consideration is the pres­
ence of elemental sulfur residues on red grape 
skins and the contribution that this might have 
to the production of hydrogen sulfide during 
fermentation. Early studies that showed this 
relationship (Rankine 1963; Acree et al. 1972; 
Schutz and Kunkee 1977; Wenzel et al. 1980) 
was generally conducted with residue levels 
much higher than the 1 to 2 ug/L usually 
found on grapes (Wenzel et al. 1980; Thomas 
et al. 1993b). Recent studies have shown that 
hydrogen sulfide formation cannot be corre­
lated with the sulfur residue levels when they 
are less than 2 ug/L (Thomas et al. 1993a). 
a. Maceration Prior to Fermentation 
In this approach, the skins and seeds are per­
mitted to soak for a period of one to two days 
prior to the initiation of the fermentation in 
an attempt to get a more aqueous extraction 
without the effects of ethanol on the grape 
cells. The must is generally cooled to between 
15°C and 20°C to slow the onset of a natural 
fermentation and is usually pumped over once 
or twice each day to enhance the extraction. A 
heavily colored juice is obtained within 24 
hours but the skins are retained and the mix­
ture is inoculated. The fermentation usually 
proceeds slowly at first until the temperature 
rises to 25°C or higher within two days. While 
this approach is practiced by a number of 
wineries, there are few analytical studies com­
paring either young or aged wines obtained by 
the method to those made by conventional 
contacting. This approach is alternatively re­
ferred to as cold maceration or cold soaking. The 
influence of this extraction approach on the 
color retention during subsequent aging needs 
to be investigated. 
b. Conventional Maceration 
The conventional approach to must contact­
ing is to transfer the new must into a fermen­
tor, to inoculate with yeast (and if desired, 
malolactic bacteria) and to control the tem-perature in the range of 25°C to 30°C. Within 
the first day of active fermentation the skins 
will rise to the top of the juice and form a skin 
cap that usually occupies about one-third of 
the fermenting volume. Throughout the fer­
mentation period, usually twice each day,juice 
will be drawn from the fermentor and pumped 
up to the top of the fermentor and distributed 
over the cap. This pump-over operation usu­
ally provides a predetermined juice volume to 
the cap that will permeate the cap, displacing 
interstitial juice, and partly lowering the cap 
temperature. The setup used for the pump­
over operation varies from simple discharge of 
a transfer hose into the headspace to rotating 
irrigators suspended from the door in the 
roof. In California, the cap irrigators are made 
by Westec Winery Equipment and York Ma­
chine Works. 
The most common practice uses one juice 
volume during each pump-over operation and 
two such operations per day. Some wineries 
use two volumes per pump over while others 
vary the volume and frequency, often begin­
ning with larger volumes or more frequent 
pump overs in the early stages of fermentation 
and then reducing this toward the point of 
pressing. In larger fermentors, the cooling of 
the juice by external heat exchangers is gener­
ally incorporated into the pump-over opera­
tion. 
c. Maceration after the Fermentation 
The practice of additional maceration follow­
ing the completion of the fermentation has 
traditionally been used in various parts of Eu­
rope. The approach is claimed to provide ad­
ditional extraction from the skins which modi­
fies the mouth feel of the young wine. Once 
the fermentation is over, the fermentor is 
closed and left alone for between one and 
three weeks. When the gas bubbles which pro­
vide the buoyancy have left the skin cap, it 
typically submerges and the skins fall to the 
base of the fermentor. 
Studies of component extraction in red wine 
indicate that the peak in color occurs within 
the second day of fermentation and those of skin tannins and flavonoids (or total phenols) 
usually show complete extraction by the end 
of the fermentation (Ribereau-Gayon 1974; 
Somers and Evans 1979; Van Balen 1984). It is 
doubtful that further extraction from the skins 
can take place if effective contacting was pro­
vided during the fermentation. The more likely 
event is the continued extraction from the 
seeds which have usually only provided about 
70 to 80% of their possible extract by the end 
of a five- or six-day fermentation. Studies of 
the extended maceration practice at wineries 
in California, primarily with Cabernet Sauvi­
gnon and Merlot grapes, have generally shown 
insignificant differences in composition, poly­
merization rates, or sensory differences due to 
this treatment and only slight effects have been 
noted when an effect was seen. 
d. Component Extraction from Skins 
and Seeds 
I. Anthocyanins. The extraction of the 
flavonoids, anthocyanins, and tannins from the 
seeds and skins during red wine fermentations 
show patterns that depend on the group in­
volved. It is important to understand these 
patterns when attempting to manipulate the 
extent and proportions of extraction by alter­
native contacting approaches. 
The chemical components responsible for 
the red and purple colors of red wines are the 
anthocyanins and these are found only in the 
outer layers of the skin of red wine grapes. In 
V. vinifera cultivars these include malvidin, pe­
onidin, petunidin, and cyanidin, primarily as 
the free form and secondarily as their J3-3-glu­
cosides. The glucosides often have a smaller 
fraction acylated with acetic acid or one of the 
cinnamic acids. Table 5-2 shows the distribu­
tion within the pigments of a young Cabernet 
Sauvignon wine (Nagel and Wulf 1979). One 
notable exception to the presence of acylated 
pigments in V. vinifera grapes is the cultivar 
Pinot noir (Rankine and Webb 1958). The 
anthocyanin patterns of other cultivars have 
been determined in Syrah (Roggero et al. 
1984), in several Port wine cultivars (Bakker Red and White Table Wines 223 
Table 5-2. Pigment distribution in a young 
Cabemet Sauvignon wine. 
Concen tration Percentage 
Anthocyanin 
Delphinidin glucoside 
Cyanidin glucoside 
Petunidin glucoside 
Peonidin glucoside 
Malvidin glucoside 
Malvidin glucoside acetate 
Malvidin glucoside p-coumerate 
Other acetates 
Other cinnamates 
Total 
Data of Nagel and Wulf (1979). (mg/L) of total 
49.4 12.9 
2.8 0.7 
30.5 8.0 
12.9 3.4 
144.8 37.9 
77.0 20.2 
15.8 4.1 
41.4 10.8 
7.5 2.0 
382.1 100 
and Timberlake 1985), in Tempranillo 
(Herbrero et al. 1988) and several others (Lay 
and Dreager 1991). 
The monomeric anthocyan ins are involved 
in two equilibria which influence the observed 
color of the wine. The first is a pH-dependent 
ionization in which the colored flavylium ion 
(a red cation form at low pH) is in equilibrium 
with a colorless pseudobase. At a pH of 3.0, 
approximately 50% of malvidin-3-glucoside is 
in the colored form. The second is the bind­
ing equilibrium with bisulfite ions to form a 
colorless sulfonic acid. The contribution of the 
monomeric forms to red wine color depend 
on the pH and the free S02 level in the wine 
and the age of the wine. 
II. Procyanidins and Tannins. The pro­
cyanidins are polymers of the flavan-3-ols that 
are between two and eight units in size. They 
represent the major fraction within the poly­
meric phenols and their special status is due to 
their role in the polymerization of the antho­
cyanins during the first years in the life of a 
red wine. 
In the past 10 years there have been a 
number of important studies that have quanti­
fied the dimer, and more recently, trimer pro­
cyanidin fractions of several red wine cultivars 
(Ricardo da Silva 1990). The four main dimers, 
generally referred to as B1, B2, B3, and B4, 
have been quantified by HPLC for Cabernet 224 Red and White Table Wines 
Sauvignon, Merlot, and Malbec (Salagoity­
Auguste and Bertrand 1984) and for Carignan 
and Mourvedre (Ricardo da Silva et al. 1992). 
Other studies have analyzed their levels in 
wines from different cultivars and regions 
(Etievant et al. 1988), their extraction from 
seeds during fermentation (Oszmianski and 
Sapis 1989), and their source in grape skins, 
seeds, and stems (Ricardo da Silva et al. 1991a, 
1992). Recent studies have addressed their in­
teraction with various proteins used in the 
fining of wines (Ricardo da Silva et al. 1991 b), 
but the roles that these components play on 
sensory and long-term color stability are not 
yet fully understood. The tannins are generally 
defined as polymeric phenols capable of bind­
ing with proteins and they include the pro­
cyanidins as well as the nonflavonoid poly­
mers. 
m. Pigment-Tannin Complexes. As indi­
cated earlier, there is now good evidence 
(Kantz and Singleton 1990; Singleton and 
Trousdale 1992) that the anthocyanins and 
tannins are involved in the formation of com­
plexes that help to keep both the antho­
cyan ins and the tannins in solution. This fea­
ture is particularly important in retaining and 
stabilizing the pigments so that they are avail­
able to partake in the polymerization that oc­
curs during aging, especially during the first 
year, when most of it takes place. It has now 
been established that the procyanidins are 
found in the grape skins of most red cultivars 
and they are extracted during the fermenta­
tion. One important exception to this pattern 
is with grapes of Pinot noir which lack the 
procyanidins in its skins (Thorngate 1992). As 
a result Pinot noir grapes seem to be unable to 
form the anthocyanin-tannin complexes and 
this probably accounts for the less intense color 
and unusual color stability of wines from this 
cultivar. 
e. Rates of Component Extraction 
During Conventional Contacting 
There are several alternative descriptions of 
the extraction of components from the skins and seeds during fermentation. These range 
from dissolving of components from a porous 
matrix until it is exhausted, a release that is 
controlled by cell leakage and a combination 
of extraction with diffusional control and the 
establishment of certain equilibria between 
some of the components. 
One of the few studies to analyze the ex­
traction of the flavonoids from skins during 
fermentation found little difference between 
the extraction rates of anthocyanins, their glu­
cosides, and their acylated forms, but their 
extraction was significantly different from that 
of catechin and epicatechin (Nagel and Wulf 
1979). 
The slower extraction of polymeric materi­
als cannot be explained simply by their lower 
diffusivity and there appear to be different 
factors controlling their release and extrac­
tion. 
The extraction curve for anthocyanins rises 
steeply at first then slows as it approaches a 
maximum by day two or three and then de­
clines slightly during the remainder of the 
fermentation as shown in Figure 5-7. Several 
studies (Ribereau-Gayon 1974; Somers and 
Evans 1979; Nagel and Wulf 1979) have shown 
this general pattern while the extraction of 
other components (flavonoids and tannins) 
shows increasing concentration with contact 
time (see Fig. 5-8 [Van Balen 1984]). If the 
extraction is simply based on the diffusion of 
pigments from the grape skin into the juice, 
an exponential approach to the final level 
would be expected and the extraction could 
be accelerated by increasing the mixing of the 
juice and skins. This is not observed however 
and other descriptions of the color extraction 
are required. 
One possible explanation is that the rate of 
development of cell leakage is controlling the 
release of pigments but this does not account 
for the subsequent decline in concentration in 
the second phase of the fermentation. An­
other is that a rapid extraction takes place 
followed by a slower complexing or binding 
that causes the decline in concentration. The 
establishment of a secondary equilibrium in-1000 
:J l 800 
§ :p • !II .... 600 .... c 
(Il 8 400 • c ·c 
!II >-E 200 .... 
~ 
0 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 
Time (Days) 
-- Model • Data 
(a) 
1000 
j • 800 
§ • :p 
!II ::. 600 c 
(Il 
~ 0 () 400 c ·c 
!II >-
~ 200 
c < 
0 
0 2 4 6 
Time (Days) 
-- Model • Data 
(b) 
volving the pigments has been thought to oc­
cur for some time. Possibilities would be self­
associations of the pigments and/or coupling 
with groups such as the tannins (Singleton and 
Trousdale 1992) which follow a slower, two­
stage, extraction pattern coming from both 
the seeds and the skins. Our present under­
standing of the extraction of the anthocyanins 
compared to other flavonoids favors the inter­
pretation in which the extracted anthocyanins Red and White Table Wines 225 
40 45 50 
• 
8 10 Fig. 5-7. The extraction of antho-
cyanins during fermentation. a. 
Bordeaux red wine (data of 
Ribereau-Gayon 1964). h. A Shiraz 
wine (data of Somers and Evans 
1979). 
quickly form a stable coupling with the ex­
tracted tannins (Singleton and Trousdale 
1992). 
The extraction of flavonoids from the skins 
follows a typical first-order rate equation: 
d[F]jdt = k * [1';, -F], (5.1) 
in which the rate of extraction is proportional 
to the current and final concentrations. 1';, is 226 Red and White Table Wines 
the final concentration and k is the rate con­
stant. When integrated, this leads to an expo­
nential approach to a limiting concentration 
at long times: 
[F]t = Fo + F,,[l -exp( -k * t)], (5.2) 
where Ft is the flavonoid content at time t and 
the initial flavonoid concentration; Fo is usu­
ally not zero. Measurements of the flavonoid 
extraction (Van Balen 1984) confirm this de­
scription, showing that half of the final con­
centration is achieved by the end of the sec­
ond day of fermentation (Figure 5-8). 
The pigment extraction patterns reported 
in the literature are well described by a two­
term extraction model in which the initial 
faster extraction is followed by a second but 
slower depletion to a lower final value. In this 
situation the rate of extraction can be de­
scribed by: 
d [ A 11 dt = k I * [ A I -A] -k 2 * [A -A 2 ], 
(5.3) 
where [A] is the anthocyanin concentration 
and A I and A 2 are the equilibrium values for 
the first and second equilibria. The constants 
kl and k2 are the first-order rate constants for 
1600 
j 1400 
1200 
8 1000 :;::; 
111 P c 800 Q) 
~ 600 0 
~ 400 
200 
0 
0 the irreversible extraction and second equilib­
rium. 
The concentration of anthocyanins in the 
juice at any time during fermentation is then 
described by the following relationship: 
[ A It = A I * (1 -exp( -k I * t)) 
-A 2*(1 -exp(-k 2*t)), (5.4) 
where the constants kl' k2' AI' and A2 are 
the same as in Equation (5.3). The data of 
Riberean-Gayon 1964 and Somers and Evans 
(1979) are shown in Figure 5-7 together with 
the best fit of the proposed model for the 
extraction. The rate constants and antho­
cyanin values for this model are summarized 
in Table 5-3, together with the corresponding 
values determined for other studies of this 
kind. The large variations in the rate constants 
suggest that the factors responsible for the 
rates are not the same for all fermentations 
and there is a need to further identify the 
species involved and mechanism of this extrac­
tion process with different grapes. 
This model describes the actual changes in 
the anthocyanin concentration and not those 
of observed color. The dynamics of the ob­
served color are more complicated, being a 
result of at least two main effects. The first is 
• 
2 4 6 8 10 12 
Time (Days) Fig. 5-8. The extraction of 
flavonoids during fermentation. -- Model • Data Red and White Table Wines 227 
Table 5-3. Model constants for the extraction of anthocyanins into wines. 
Rate 
constant 
Temperature (C) kl 
AuthorCs) cultivar (1/day) 
Ribereau-Gayon Unknown 0.319 
(1974) Unknown 
Total anthocyanin 
Somers and Evans Unknown 1.39 
(1979) Shiraz (Syrah) 
Total anthocyanin 
Nagel and Wulf 20-22°C 1.42 
(1979) Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
Malvidin-3-glucoside 
Nagel and Wulf 20-22°C 1.62 
(1979) Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
Total anthocyanin 
Van Balen 20-23°C 0.657 
(1984) Ruby Cabernet 
Total anthocyanin 
Van Balen 20-23°C 0.405 
(1984) Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
Total anthocyanin 
an association between anthocyanin molecules 
at concentrations above 50 mg/L and this has 
been demonstrated to provide almost double 
the color expected from the anthocyanins at 
normal wine concentrations of 300 to 500 
mg/L (Somers and Verette 1988). The second 
is the color loss during fermentation due to 
the solvent effect of the increasing ethanol 
concentration during the fermentation (Som­
ers and Evans 1979). 
The extraction of tannins during fermenta­
tion lags behind that of the anthocyanins, dis­
playing a two-term extraction model with first­
and zero-order terms. This is in contrast to the 
exponential rise to a final value of the 
flavonoids or the rise to a maximum followed 
by a depletion to a final level of the antho­
cyanins. 
One description of the rate of tannin ex­
traction suggests that there is a diffusion term 
that depends on the wine concentration and a 
leakage (or dissolution) term that is indepen­
dent of the wine concentration. The rate Rate 
constant 
k2 Concentration Concentration 
(1/day) Al (mg/L) (A2 (mg/L) 
0.098 1200 842 
0.690 1500 802 
0.196 189 69.7 
0.175 572 327 
0.221 992 625 
0.114 882 482 
equation takes the form: 
d[T]jdt = k3 * [Tl -T] + k4 (5.5) 
where [T] is the tannin concentration; k3 and 
k4 are the first- and zero-order rate constants 
and Tl is the equilibrium tannin concentra­
tion of the diffusional extraction. This might 
be interpreted as an equilibrium extraction 
from the skins and a parallel dissolution/ex­
traction of tannin from the seeds. 
The extraction of tannin during fermenta­
tion would then be described by the inte­
grated form of (5.5): 
The tannin extraction pattern during one 
example of fermentation and extended mac­
eration (Ribereau-Gayon 1974) is shown in 
Figure 5-9. The pattern for tannin extraction 
from seeds alone (Singleton and Draper 1964), 
in water and model wine, is shown in Figures 228 Red and White Table Wines 
5 
:J 4 :g 
.~ ... 3 !CI .. ... 
~ 2 
c 
E c 
!CI I-
Time (Days) Fig. 5-9. The extraction of tannin dur­
ing fermentation (data of Ribereau­
Gayon 1964). -- tv10del • Data 
5-lOa and 5-10b. The corresponding rate con- 3. Fermentation Temperature 
stants are summarized in Table 5-4. The 
first-order constant is quite sensitive to tem­
perature in the absence of ethanol but less so 
at wine concentrations. The larger constant 
observed in the wine extraction is probably 
due to this analysis showing tannin from the 
skins as well as from the seeds. The zero-order 
constant shows the same temperature charac­
teristic as the first-order constant, decreasing 
at higher temperatures. The equilibrium tan­
nin concentration increases with both temper­
ature and ethanol content. The effect of the 
20°C increase is to increase tannin concentra­
tion by 80 to 90%, and that of 14% v/v 
ethanol is to increase it by 50 to 60%. The 
tannin extraction into wine differs in terms of 
the presence of other tannin sources and the 
use of another concentration measure. How­
ever the slower constant for long-term compo­
nent may be due to the adsorption of other 
material onto the seeds or more stratified con­
ditions within a fermentor. It appears from the 
similarity of the extraction kinetics that much 
of the tannin extraction that occurs during 
extended maceration may be coming from the 
seeds rather than the skins, as is generally 
believed, and this may have sensory implica­
tions (Rossi and Singleton 1966). The fermentation temperature influences the 
rate of yeast growth and thereby the time 
course of ethanol formation. There are in­
creasing rates of extraction of all phenolic 
components at higher temperatures, but as 
discussed previously, this does not usually in­
crease the solubility of the anthocyanins that 
are extracted and often there is little enhance­
ment in color. The higher rate of heat release 
can lead to increasing temperature when inad­
equate cooling is available, and this in turn 
can lead to the enhanced formation of unde­
sirable byproducts if a nutrient limitation ex­
ists. Examples of such components are hydro­
gen sulphide and acetic acid. The cessation of 
yeast fermentation due to temperatures rising 
above 35°C are rare today due to better cool­
ing capability. 
The influence of fermentation temperature 
on the retention of varietal character appear 
to be secondary to that caused by the stripping 
associated with the volumes of carbon dioxide 
evolved. The existence of any varietal aromas 
in wines is due to the fact that these compo­
nents have very low volatility, and as a result 
are not readily depleted by entrainment in the 
carbon dioxide evolution. They do however 100 
90 
~ 80 
6 70 
+' 0 60 
~ 
~ 50 
... 40 a 30 
~ 20 
10 
90 
Time (HoLXS) 
-- Model • Data 
100 
90 
~ 80 
6 70 
+' 0 60 
~ ... 
tlj 50 
... 40 c: a 30 
Qj a. 20 
10 
90 
Time (HoLXS) 
-- Model • Data 
(b) 
have sensory thresholds that are at very low 
concentrations. The major effect due to fer­
mentation temperature appears to be due to 
the extraction of phenolic components other 
than the anthocyanins. 
4. The Pump-Over Operation 
During red wine fermentations, typically once 
or twice a day, one to two volumes of juice or • 
450 Red and White Table Wines 229 
Fig. 5-10. The extraction of tannin 
from grape seeds (data from Single­
ton and Draper 1964). a) Water at 
20°C b) Model wine at 20°C. 
wine will need to be drawn from the base of 
the fermentor and pumped to the top and 
sprayed or trickled onto the skin cap in what is 
referred to as the pump-over operation. The 
reasons for the pump-over operation are to 
provide the liquid below better access to the 
skins in the cap in order to promote extrac­
tion of color and flavor constituents and to 
cool the skin cap rather than to break the cap 230 Red and White Table Wines 
Table 5-4. Rate constants and equilibrium tannin concentrations. 
First-order zero-order Equilibrium 
Author Medium constant (l/h) constant (mg/L/h) concentration (%, giL) 
Singleton and seeds 0.100 
Draper (1964) 0% EtOH, lloC 
Singleton and seeds 0.041 
Draper (1964) 0% EtOH, 20°C 
Singleton and seeds 0.066 
Draper (1964) 0% EtOH, 30°C 
Singleton and seeds 0.038 
Draper (1964) 14% EtOH, lloC 
Singleton and seeds 0.032 
Draper (1964) 14% EtOH, 20°C 
Singleton and seeds 0.038 
Draper (1964) 14% EtOH, 30°C 
Ribereau-Gayon wine 0.013 
(1974) 
up by a high pressure stream of juice. Some 
wineries schedule the pump-over operation 
with that for fermentation cooling by passing 
the wine through an external heat exchanger 
at the same time. This requires an arrange­
ment in which the cooling can be controlled 
as the time required for each operation will 
vary throughout the fermentation. There are 
some instances in which the pump-over opera­
tion is varied as the fermentation progresses, 
even though the relative rates of extraction of 
the various components will be continually 
changing. 
One good example of pigment extraction 
can be found in the production of red port 
wine, where there is considerable pumping of 
the juice over the skins during the first two to 
three days of fermentation only. The extrac­
tion is primarily due to enhanced contact of 
warm juice with the ethanol playing only a 
minor, if significant, role. 
The temperature and contacting methods 
employed in the production of red table wines 
range from the cold (or warm) juice and skin 
contact to the other extreme. There is the 
practice of extended maceration in which the 
skins (and more importantly the seeds) are 
allowed to remain in contact with the wine for 
several days or weeks after the end of the 0.094 25.0 
0.055 42.4 
0.061 48.2 
0.076 41.2 
0.048 64.3 
0.078 75.3 
0.009 3.22 
fermentation, with or without further pump­
ing over. There are also many situations in 
which the skins (and seeds) are removed dur­
ing the fermentation, at anywhere from 12 to 
o Brix, depending on the cultivar and its ma­
turity. 
a. Pump-Over Arrangements 
The racking valve will generally be used to 
draw the juice to be used for the pump-over 
rather than the bottom filling valve which 
would allow much of the yeast and seeds to be 
drawn with it. The juice from the racking valve 
will often be splashed over a screen (to catch 
seeds, skins, and stems) and into a sump be­
fore passing though the pump and transfer 
hose. It is then transferred, often by a cen­
trifugal pump, to the top of the tank by either 
a long flexible hose or a fixed stainless line 
with short flexible hose connected from the 
pump to the bottom end and a second flexible 
hose connected from the top across to the 
manhole. The outlet of the hose is introduced 
into the tank through a door in the roof which 
is generally accessed from an elevated walk­
way. The liquid is often sprayed through a 
nozzle fitting to make a high-velocity jet. This 
will usually be moved around during the pump over and spraying on the skin cap is generally 
controlled by a winery worker. 
Several designs of automatic pump-over 
sprinklers ranging from spinning discs to ro­
tating channels, have been used with various 
degrees of success (see also section 26). There 
are also vertical draft tube units which are 
suspended from the roof of the fermentor to 
the top surface of the skin cap and which 
penetrate the cap into the juice below. These 
have a propeller mounted at the juice end and 
the motor is mounted at the headspace end. 
When the motor is switched on, the juice is 
drawn up and sprayed out over the cap by the 
protective scroll at the motor end. The units 
are difficult to move and remain suspended 
free of the skin cap when the tank is drained. 
There is a concern about the generation of 
suspended solids and the extraction of compo­
nents that lead to poor settling due to the 
action of the propeller. 
Other designs range from the Algerian gas 
buildup/flooding system (Troost 1980) to me­
chanical punching-down plate devices and 
wood or steel grids for submerged cap ar­
rangements. Those that rely on the buildup of 
fermentation gases cannot provide early ex­
traction very well since they provide pumping 
over in proportion to the rate of fermentation. 
They should provide close to a pump-over 
value of 60 volumes of liquid (equivalent to 
the volumes of CO 2 evolved) during the fer­
mentation, this will actually be slightly less due 
to some gas evolution from the wine in the 
pump-over reservoir before it flows over the 
skin cap. Even so, this is considerably more 
than the 10 to 24 volumes commonly used in a 
twice per day pump-over regime. 
b. Extraction Considerations 
One of the poorly understood aspects of ex­
traction during red wine fermentations is that 
associated with the seeds as discussed previ-
0usly. The seeds are initially distributed be­
tween those caught in the skins in the cap and 
those that have fallen to the floor of the fer­
mentor. As the pump-over operations progress, 
some of those in the cap will be released and Red and White Table Wines 231 
will collect at the base of the fermentor. The 
extraction from components at the base will 
be controlled almost entirely by diffusion 
through a stagnant liquid rather than the more 
active and displacing nature of the extraction 
obtained by the seeping of wine through the 
skin cap. The seeds at the base will be passed 
over during each pump-over operation since 
the wine is commonly drawn from a point 
above the base. The extraction will conse­
quently be in favor of that from the skins 
rather than the seeds. From the earlier discus­
sion, it seems that the major effect of pro­
longed skin contact would seem to be the 
ongoing extraction from seeds rather than the 
further extraction of skin tissue. 
c. Time of Pressing 
Perhaps as significant as the temperature of 
extraction and the contacting method is the 
timing of the separation of the skins and seeds 
from the liquid. While the anthocyanin extrac­
tion will have approached its limit by the third 
day, the tannin extraction from skins and seeds 
can continue beyond the end of the fermenta­
tion or until separation takes place. The tim­
ing of the separation can be used to influence 
the relative proportions of color and tannin in 
the young wine however desirable, or target 
analytical values for these components are still 
unknown. They are complicated by the antho­
cyanin-anthocyanin association and antho­
cyanin-tannin couplings discussed previously. 
The most obvious criteria for the separation 
are then color, tannin content, taste, sugar 
content, and contact time. The ideal situation 
would be to get maximal color and an accept­
able tannin level at the same time. There are 
still questions as to the ideal level of tannin 
since the levels for good taste may not coin­
cide with those for good color stability. Fur­
ther, the kinetics of these extractions outlined 
above and the variations that exist between 
grape loads would suggest that such a coinci­
dence is likely to occur only by chance. Fol­
lowing the extraction during a particular fer­
mentation poses a dilemma in that while there 
are good analytical measures for anthocyanin 232 Red and White Table Wines 
(and tannin) there is not a good relationship 
between tannin level (or total phenol content) 
and the astringency of the finished wine, as 
indicated by tasting. Tasting for astringency 
during the fermentation is not productive due 
to the effect of unfermented sugars. Since the 
relative proportions of color and tannin will 
be quite variable between and within loads of 
any cultivar, most winemakers continue to base 
the timing of the separation and pressing on 
the sugar content or juice density. This is only 
a first approximation to the level of extraction, 
perhaps better than contact time alone and 
the actual astringency will be modified by 
blending or fining with one of the protein 
fining agents during the months following the 
fermentation. Winemakers typically choose 
densities in the range of 5 to 0 Brix to draw 
the liquid off and to press the skins with the 
conventional maceration. The timing of the 
draw when prefermentation contact has been 
employed can be earlier, but is usually similar 
due to the enhanced tannin extraction associ­
ated with the formation of ethanol. 
Today, the press fractions are generally 
added back to the wine to complete the fer­
mentation, unlike older practices of keeping 
them separate. The widespread application of 
membrane presses has essentially eliminated 
the extensive skin tearing and unacceptable 
composition associated with the fractions ob­
tained from the continuous screw and moving 
head presses. 
5. Malolactic Fermentation 
The trend in the past decade has been for 
wine makers to also inoculate red musts with a 
prepared culture of malolactic bacteria rather 
than to inoculate the wine after the comple­
tion of the ethanol fermentation. The purpose 
is to have this fermentation completed more 
rapidly, consistently, and with less undesirable 
byproduct formation than occurs in the young 
wine. The wide variation in the initiation and 
completion of the fermentation in young red 
wines, even when prepared cultures are used, 
continues to be a scientific and winemaking concern, especially in regions where the 
ethanol contents are typically 12 and 13% by 
volume. While the existence of nutrient defi­
ciencies in musts (and the addition of supple­
ments) is now generally accepted for the yeast 
fermentation, the corresponding acceptance 
of nutritional deficiencies as a cause of poor 
bacterial growth and byproduct formation in 
wines has yet to be adopted. 
Inoculation of the must with malolactic bac­
teria avoids the inhibition due to ethanol and 
possibly other yeast byproducts. The complex 
nutrient requirements of these organisms i~ 
well established (Chapter 6) and the must pro­
vides a much more complete nutrient medium 
than does the finished wine. 
6. Postfermentation Handling 
Red wines will generally be clarified by rack­
ing' centrifuging, or filtration immediately af­
ter fermentation and usually transferred into 
wooden cooperage for an aging period. In 
wines that have not completed the malolactic 
fermentation concurrently, this transforma­
tion will generally occur in the following 
months either by a bacterial inoculation or 
resident microflora in the cooperage. The 
practice of loose bunging during this time is to 
allow for carbon dioxide from the primary 
and malolactic fermentations that will con­
tinue to be slowly released. 
One approach to handling young wines is 
the practice of inoculating the malolactic fer­
mentation concurrently with the yeast fermen­
tation, adjusting the sulfur dioxide level from 
microbial protection, clarifYing the wine so 
that the lees are insignificant, and tight bung­
ing and rolling the barrels so that they can be 
stored undisturbed during the aging period. 
This is the nontraditional, low-input, nonmi­
crobial approach favored in the production of 
varietal wine styles. 
Another approach is the racking of some 
wine lees into the barrel, conducting the mal­
olactic fermentation in the barrel, racking af­
ter its completion, fining in the barrel, and 
storing the barrels in the upright position with loose bunging and periodic topping. The lat­
ter is the traditional approach which encour­
ages unreliable microbial contributions and 
considerably more time involvement without 
any demonstrated benefits. 
The aging pattern and the cooperage avail­
able will determine the period of time for 
which the wines are held in barrels. This will 
also depend on the style being sought and 
attitudes regarding clarification, topping, and 
fining during this time. While there are some 
strongly held opinions with regard to the im­
portance of some of these practices, there is 
little if any evidence that they are of sensory 
significance in the bottled wine. 
7. Aging and Fining 
When polymeric color is produced by linking 
of a pigment monomer with another flavonoid, 
the resulting flavine is more likely to be col­
ored and is likely not to be influenced by pH 
or S02. This permits polymeric color to be 
distinguished from monomeric color and is 
the basis of spectrophotometric methods for 
the estimation of pigment quantities (Somers 
and Evans 1977). 
The changes in anthocyanin content of a 
young red wine are well illustrated by the 
20 
:5 5 
E 0 
CII II) 
.... 10 nl 
§ 
nl 
~ « 
0 
0 50 100 150 200 250 
Time After Fermentation (Days) Red and White Table Wines 233 
Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot wines ana­
lyzed by Nagel and Wulf (1979). The decline 
in the anthocyanin content during the first 
eight months of age is shown in Figure 5-11 
for the Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. Note 
that the total color content is measured at a 
pH of 1 at 520 nm, and falls from a level of 16 
absorbance units at the end of fermentation to 
approximately 5 units at 8 months. Figure 
5-12a shows the rise in the polymeric pigment 
(nonbleachable red color at 520 nm) and Fig­
ure 5-12b, shows the increase in the percent­
age of the total color due to the anthocyanin 
during this period. The polymeric color, mea­
sured as the nonbleachable color at 520 nm 
has risen from zero to about two absorbance 
units in this time and it accounts for approxi­
mately 68% of the total color at this time. 
The formation of the polymer follows a 
sigmoid-shaped curve, beginning slowly then 
accelerating and then slowing down again at 
longer times. This suggests that the monomers 
are involved in at least one intermediate form 
before they behave as polymers in this context. 
Their decline is exponential, indicating a 
first-order rate of disappearance in which most 
of it has been consumed within the first year 
(Figure 5-11). The red polymer formation (Fig­
ure 5-12a,b) shows a kinetic pattern that would 
• Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
o Merlot 
Fig. 5-11. The decline in total red 
color in Cabernet Sauvignon and Mer­
lot during the first 200 days after fer­
mentation (data from Nagel and Wulf 
1979). 234 &d and White Table Wines 
3r-------------------------~ 
50 100 150 200 250 • Cabernet 
SauviglOn 
o Merlot 
Time After Fermentation (Days) 
(a) 
100 
~ 90 
... BO I: 
~ 70 
a: 
0 60 • Cabernet 
.~ 50 Sauvignon 
>-0 Merlot 
(5 40 n. 
Fig. 5-12. a) The development of ... 30 
polymeric pigment in Cabernet ~ 
Sauvignon and Merlot during the 20 
Qj 
first 200 days after fermentation (data n. 10 
from Nagel and Wulf 1979). b) The 
development of the degree of poly-
50 100 150 200 250 merization in Cabernet Sauvignon 
and Merlot during the first 200 days 
Time After Fermentation (Days) after fermentation (data from Nagel 
and Wulf 1979). 
be expected from an intermediate pool rather 
than the monomer itself. The slow beginning 
indicates that there is little of the intermediate 
form, the acceleration suggests that the inter­
mediate concentration has increased, and the 
final slowing of the rate of polymer formation 
toward the end suggests that the intermediate 
pool is beginning to become depleted. By con­
trast, the formation of brown-colored polymer 
is essentially linear with time during the first 
eight months after fermentation (Figure 5-13), (b) 
showing no tendency to run out of precursor 
material. 
The role of oxygen in these polymerization 
reactions has been the subject of discussion 
for several years with somewhat conflicting 
evidence. The influence of acetaldehyde on 
the polymerization of the 3,5 diglucosides is 
clear and its involvement in the polymeriza­
tion of pigments in Port wines has been estab­
lished (Bakker et al. 1993), albeit under exag­
gerated concentrations. The involvement of 3 
5 5 • 
E 2 0 
(\J 
'I" 
.... 
t1l 
~ 
t1l .D '-0 
({) 
.D 
~ 
o~----~--~~--~----~----~ 
o 50 100 150 200 250 
Time After Fermentation (Days) 
oxygen in the formation of acetaldyhde is well 
established (Wildenradt and Singleton 1974) 
but the role of acetaldehyde in accelerated 
polymerization in short-term studies with mul­
tiple oxygen saturations (Pontallier and 
Ribereau-Gayon 1983) does not appear to be 
generally true. Other studies under essentially 
anaerobic conditions (Nagel and Wulf 1979; 
Somers and Evans 1986, Somers and 
Wescombe 1987; Somers and Pocock 1990) 
show that polymerization occurs even in the 
absence of oxygen, indicating that its involve­
ment during the aging of table wines is sec­
ondary in this respect. 
The polymer can be regarded as stable in 
color in that it is less prone to browning and 
independent of free S02 bleaching. The 
monomer, however, is a relatively unstable 
form in that it can be oxidized during aging to 
a brown polymeric form. The rate of conden­
sation compared with that of oxidation deter­
mines the final color in the aged wine. The 
orange tinge in many rose wines is a good 
example of a situation in which oxidation has 
developed more quickly than condensation, 
and where higher free S02 may have slowed 
the first and had less effect on the second. 
Some rose wines are made by blending small 
amounts of older red wines with young white 
wines, providing stable red color which will • 
0 Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
Merlot Red and White Table Wines 235 
Fig. 5-13. The increase in brown color 
in Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot during 
the first 200 days after fermentation (data 
from Nagel and Wulf 1979). 
not be bleached by S02 and will not be easily 
oxidized to give the orange condition. 
The isolation of the intermediates and the 
further characterization of this reaction se­
quence would greatly enhance our ability to 
predict these changes from young wine com­
position. There may also be an effect on these 
reactions and the stability of the polymers due 
to presence of certain polysaccharide fractions 
that have been isolated from red wines (Bril­
louet et al. 1990) and the changes in others 
due to fermentation (Deitrich et al. 1992). 
Further studies in these areas would help to 
complete our understanding of the effects of 
grape maturation and red wine skin contact­
ing on the color of both young and mature 
red wines. 
a. Fining Effects 
There is a common misconception that a more 
complete extraction produces a more flavorful 
wine. The potential for tannin extraction is 
difficult to estimate even during the fermenta­
tion itself. Some grapes will provide more color 
and flavor in proportion to the tannin and the 
only option is to try to obtain primarily early 
extraction which favors the monomeric phe­
nols over the tannin by more extensive pump 
overs and early pressing. In wines which are 
too astringent, this can be modified by fining 236 Red and White Table Wines 
with any of the proteins. There will be some 
secondary color and possible flavor loss during 
this treatment but these changes are often 
insignificant. 
During the first year, between 50 and 70% 
of the pigments will be incorporated into poly­
meric forms. Fining with proteins should be 
done early in the life of red wines so that the 
astringency can be reduced with the minimum 
of polymeric color removal. Fining with 
polyvinyl polypyrrolidone/(PVPP) or nylon 
(see Chapter 7) in order to reduce bitterness 
should be done in older wines when most of 
the pigment is in the polymeric form. Higher­
pH wines tend to have slower polymerization 
of pigments when compared to oxidation and 
are therefore more prone to browning and 
eventual color decline due to precipitation. 
8. Carbonic Maceration 
The alternative contacting method in which 
the extraction for the grape is quite different 
from that of conventional contacting is car­
bonic maceration. In this approach, the intact 
berries are surrounded with a carbon dioxide 
atmosphere and allowed to respire and to 
have partial fermentation by the grapes' own 
glycolytic enzymes. Some winemakers add a 
small volume of fermenting juice to the fer­
mentor to provide the carbon dioxide for the 
atmosphere. The onset of the transformation 
generally takes place after several days at a 
preferred temperature of 35°C and is usually 
detected by a bubbler when gas generation 
occurs within the fermentor. There is a vac­
uum developed initially, then gas evolution 
during the metabolic phase, and cessation of 
gas production when the fermentation has 
finished. 
In the process, the cell walls in the skin 
become permeable allowing the pigments, 
many of the phenols, and other extractables to 
leak into the intracellular fluid. Mter eight to 
10 days of berry fermentation, the enzymes 
lose their activity and the process ceases. The 
clusters are then transferred into a press and 
the berries are broken to yield their colored, partially fermented juice containing 1 to 1.5~ 
ethanol by volume. This juice is then inocu­
lated and fermented to completion at temper­
atures of 15°C to 20°C, without the skins. 
The wines produced in this way are usually 
lower in tannin with a distinctive aroma con­
tribution in addition to the fruit character. 
The main chemical changes are the degrada­
tion of almost half of the malic acid, consump­
tion of ammonia, and the formation of the 
amide amino acids and succinic, fumaric, and 
shikimic acids. The aroma produced by this 
procedure is quite distinct and studies of the 
volatiles formed (Ducruet 1984) have shown 
significantly higher concentrations of ben­
zaldehyde, ethyl salicylate, vinyl benzene, and 
ethyl-9-decanoate. A comprehensive mono­
graph covering most of the current under­
standing of this process has recently been pub­
lished (Flanzy et al. 1987). 
While the traditional procedure employs 
carbon dioxide, the sugar conversion can be 
extended, almost to completion, by the use of 
nitrogen instead of carbon dioxide. It appears 
that it is the gas phase concentration of car­
bon dioxide that leads to a loss of enzyme 
activity. This would appear to provide possible 
variations from the traditional procedure that 
might be investigated further. 
9. Thermovinification 
In certain locations and in some seasons, the 
lack of color or the presence of mold requires 
that heat be used to enhance the extraction 
from skins and the inactivation of juice and 
mold-derived enzymes. This treatment, known 
as thcrmovinijication, is applied to the skins 
prior to fermentation and the fermentation is 
conducted without the skins or seeds present 
(Martiniere 1981). In practice, the clusters are 
crushed and the must transferred to a tank 
from which a fraction of the juice is drawn, 
heated to a temperature of 45°C to 55°C and 
then pumped over the skin cap either contin­
uously or periodically to obtain the extraction. 
The temperature employed, and the time and 
the skinjuice contact during the treatment, control the extent of extraction. Such juices 
are generally intensely colored but can be 
overextracted in tannin. They are usually fer­
mented before the composition is modified by 
the adsorptive (fining) treatments. The use of 
temperatures above 60°C leads to a more com­
plete but usually unacceptable level of phenol 
extraction. 
G. FORTIFIED WINES 
The production of fortified wines has tradi­
tionally followed winemaking patterns that 
have permitted significant phenolic extrac­
tion, which is important for a relatively long 
and oxidative aging process. This is true for 
both red and white fortified wines of the Port 
style compared with the relatively low-phenolic 
white wines that will form the base for the 
production of traditional Sherry. The use of 
natural flora is not an issue in a wine style 
which is primarily associated with fruit charac­
ter, low to moderate aging, and spirit compo­
nents. 
1. Must Handling 
The grapes will be crushed and transferred 
directly into the fermentors as would normally 
be done for a red table wine. The skin extrac­
tion is encouraged from an early stage in both 
red and white styles. This is achieved by early 
and extensive juice pump overs, even before 
the onset of fermentation, continuing until 
shortly before the juice is drawn off and subse­
quently fortified. 
Traditionally, spontaneous fermentation is 
encouraged primarily due to economics and 
the shorter-than-usual fermentation period. 
The use of a selected yeast inoculation would 
ensure a more predictable onset and pattern 
of fermentation. 
2. Fermentation Temperature 
The fermentation temperature is generally 
chosen to ensure swift fermentation without 
encouraging the formation of fermentation Red and White Table Wines 237 
esters. Temperatures in the range of 25°C to 
30°C have traditionally been used, but this 
seems to be a practical choice rather than one 
based on optimized extraction rates of skin 
components or other considerations. Lower 
fermentation temperatures would seem to be 
desirable for wine to be made from the Muscat 
cultivars. 
3. Timing of the Fortification 
The timing of the fortification is determined 
by the ratio of ethanol to sugar desired in the 
young wine. The microbial stability of the for­
tified wine is greatly enhanced when the 
ethanol content is 20% or above. Many tradi­
tional Port wines are made in the 18 to 20% 
range. The factors to be considered are the 
quantity of spirit used to the quantity of forti­
fied wine produced, and there is a range of 
points during the fermentation at which forti­
fication can take place. As the fermentation 
advances, less spirit will be required and yet 
less sugar will be remaining. 
The wine will be drawn off the skins when 
the juice density is between 16 to 12Brix and 
transferred to a measuring tank. The skins are 
then transferred to the press and the press 
fractions are usually added back to the corre­
sponding juice and the fortification per­
formed. In red fortified wines, the color ex­
traction is of considerable importance due to 
the short contact time, and the press fractions 
are usually heavily colored. 
4. Selection of Fortifying Spirit 
The spirit options range from those produced 
by pot stills which are relatively high in fusel 
content and at 70 to 75% ethanol, to those 
produced from columns in which a lower fusel 
content is sought but at higher ethanol levels 
and often with significant acetaldehyde con­
tent. 
The volume of spirit required can be esti­
mated from the following equation in which 
the volumetric contractions have been ig-238 Red and White Table Wines 
nored: 
where v: and lj are the volumes of spirit and 
juice respectively, x is the ethanol concentra­
tion in volume percent; and the subscripts f, 
j, and s refer to the final wine, the juice being 
fortified, and the spirit being used, respec­
tively. 
The volumetric contraction associated with 
such fortifications can be estimated from the 
volumes of water and ethanol in various 
ethanol solutions and these can be found in 
references such as the U.S. Gauging Manual. 
A better approach is to perform the calcula­
tion on a weight basis, using the weight frac­
tion of the desired mixture and estimating the 
spirit volume from the computed weight of 
spirit that is required. 
5. Aging 
The aging of fortified wines is based on the 
development of color, the extraction of small 
amounts of oak components, and the evapora­
tive loss of volatile spirit components. This 
usually requires a minimum of two years of 
aging in older wooden cooperage to produce 
a wine that has significant fruit character, a 
low level of barrel extractives, and a relative 
absence of sharp and undesirable spirit com­
ponents. The wines of this style are made to 
undergo a continued development of aged 
characteristics within the bottle. 
Common faults in some young fortified 
wines are the dominance of new oak extrac­
tives caused by the use of relatively young 
cooperage and the presence of aldehydic 
components from an inappropriate spirit. 
H. REFERENCES 
ACREE, T. E., E. P. SONOFF, and D.F. SPLITSTOESSER. 
1972. "Effect of yeast strain and type of sulfur 
compound on hydrogen sulfide production." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 23:6-9. AMATI, A. 1986. "L'impiego dei coadiuvanti nella 
fermentazione dei mosti." Vini d 'Italia. 28: 19-25. 
AxCELL, B., L. KRUGER, and G. ALLAN. 1988. "Some 
investigative studies with yeast foods." Proc. Inst. 
Brew. (Aust. NZ.) 12th Conv.:201-209. 
BACH, H.-P., and P. HOFFMAc"lN. 1979. "Versuche zur 
Frage der Bentonitzugabe zum Most." Weinwirt. 
115: 1119- 1132. 
BAKKER,j., A. PICINELLl, and P. BRIDLE. 1993. "Model 
wine solutions: Color and composition changes 
during ageing." Vitis 32:111-118. 
BAKKER, j., and C. F. TiMBERLAKE. 1985. "The distri­
bution and content of anthocyanins in young 
port wines as determined by high performance 
liquid chromatography." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
36: 1325- 1333. 
BATES, F. j., and AsSOCIATES. 1942. Polarimetry, Sac­
charimetry and the Sugars. Circular 440, NBS, 
Washington, DC: Department of Communica­
tions. 
BAUME, A. 1797. Elements de Pharmacie. Theorique et 
Practique. Paris: Samson. 
BENVEGl\IN, L., E. CAPT, and G. PIGUET. 1951. Traite 
de Vinification. 2nd ed. Lausanne, Switzerland: 
Librairie Payot. 
BIDAN, P., C. DIVIES, and P. Dupuy. 1978. "Procede 
perfectionne de preparation de vins mousseux." 
French Patent 7822131. 
BIOLETTI, F. T. 1906. "A new wine-cooling 
machine." Calif. Agric. Expt. Stn. Bull. 174:1-27. 
BOULTON, R. 1979. "The heat transfer characteris­
tics of wine fermentors." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
30: 152- 156. 
BOULTON, R. 1980. "The prediction of fermenta­
tion behavior by a kinetic model." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 31 :40-45. 
BRILLOUET, j. M., C. Bosso, and M. MOUTOUNET. 
1990. "Isolation, purification and characteriza­
tion of an arabinogalactan from a red wine." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:29-36. 
CASTOR, j. G. B. 1953. "Experimental development 
of compressed yeast as fermentation starters." 
Wines and Vines 34(8):27 and (9):33. 
CHEN, G. N., and F. GUTAMIS. 1976. "Carbon diox­
ide inhibition of yeast growth in biomass pro­
duction." Biotechnol. Bioeng. 18: 1455-1462. 
CHEYNIER, V., j. RIGAUD, j. M. SOUQUET, F. DUPRAT, 
and M. MouTouNET. 1990. "Must browning in 
relation to the behavior of phenolic compounds 
during oxidation". Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:346-349. CILLIERS, J. J. L., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1990. "Non­
enzymic autoxidative reactions of caffeic acid in 
wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:84-86. 
COOKE, G. M. 1964. "Effect of grape pulp upon 
soluble solids determinations." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
15:11-15. 
COULON, P., B. DUTEURTRE, M. CHARPENTIER, A. PAR­
ENTHOEN, C. BADOUR AND J. P. MOULIN. 1983. 
"New prospects in the 'Methode Champenoise' 
utilization of enclosed yeasts during bottling." 
Le Vigneron Champenois. lO4:516-532. 
CROWELL, E. A., andJ. F. GUYMON. 1963. "Influence 
of aeration and suspended material on higher 
alcohols, acetoin and diacetyl during fermenta­
tion." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 14:214-222. 
CROWL D. A., and J. F. LOUVAR. 1991. Chemical 
Process Safety: Fundamentals with Applications. En­
glewood Cliffs, N.J: Prentice Hall. 
DE CLERKE, J. 1958. A Textbook of Brewing. Vol 2. 
London. Chapman & Hall. 
DIETRICH, H., H. SCHMITT, and K. WUCHERPFENNIG. 
1992. "The alteration of the colloids of must 
and wine during winemaking. II. Change of the 
charge and the molecular weight distribution of 
the polysaccharides." Vitic. Enol. Sci. 47:87-95. 
DUBERNET, M., P. RIBEREAU-GAYON, H. R. LERNER, E. 
HAREL, and A. M. MAYER. 1977. "Purification 
and properties of laccase from Botrytis cinerea." 
Phytochemistry 16: 1. 
DUBET. J. 1913. Petite Traite de Vinification a lusage 
des Vignerons. Paris: Librairie des Sciences Agri­
coles. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., J.-C. VILLETTAZ, C. DESPLANQUES 
AND P. RrBEREAU-GAYON. 1981. "Degradation en­
zymatique du glucan de Botrytis cinerea. Appli­
cation a l'amelioration de la clarification des 
vins issus de raisins pourris." Conn. Vigne Vin 
15:161-177. 
DUCRUET, V. 1984. "Comparison of the headspace 
volatiles of carbonic maceration and traditional 
wine." Lebens. Wiss. Technol. 17:217-22l. 
EL HALOUI, N., Y. CLERAN, J. M. SABLAYROLLES, P. 
GRENIER, P. BARRE, and G. CORRIEU. 1988. "Suivi 
et control de la fermentation alcoolique en 
oenologie." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 115:12-17. 
ETIEVANT, P., P. SCHLICH, A. BERTRAND, P. SYMONDS, 
and J.-C. BOUVIER. 1988. "Varietal and geo­
graphic classification of French wines in terms of 
pigments and flavonoid compounds."]' Sci. Food 
Agric.42:39-54. Red and White Table Wines 239 
FETTERROLL, B. M., and G. WURDIG. 1977. Die Ver­
grosserung der "inneren Oberflache" des 
Mostes und deren Wirkung auf sulfitbildende 
Hefen. Wein Wissen. 32:25-33. 
FEUILLAT, M., and C. CHARPENTIER. 1982. "Autolysis 
of yeast in Champagne." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
38:6-13. 
FLANZY, C., M. FLANZY, and P. BERNARD. 1987. La 
Vinification Par Maceration Carbonique. Paris: 
INRA. 
GENIEX, C., S. LAFON-LAFOURCADE, and P. 
RrBEREAU-GAYON. 1983. "Les causes, la preven­
tion et la traitment des arrets de la fermentation 
alcoolique." Conn. Vigne Vin 17:205-217. 
GROAT, M., and C. S. OUGH. 1978. "Effects of 
soluble solids added to clarified musts on fer­
mentation rate, wine composition and wine 
quality." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 29:112-119. 
GUELL C., and R. B. BOULTON. 1994. "The influ­
ence of suspended solids and stirring on the rate 
of small-scale fermentations," Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
(Accepted). 
GUNATA, Y. Z., C. L. BAYONOVE, R. L. BAUMES, and R. 
E. CORDONNIER. 1986. "Stability of free and 
bound fractions of some aroma compounds of 
grapes cv Muscat during the wine processing: 
Preliminary results." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
37:112-114. 
HERBRERO, E., C. SANTOs-BuEGLA, and J. C. 
RrvAS-GONZALO. 1988. "HPLC-Diode array spec­
troscopy identification of anthocyanins of Vitis 
vinifera variety Tempranillo." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
39:227-233. 
HOHL, L. 1938. "Further observations on produc­
tion of alcohol by Saccharomyces ellipsoideus in 
syruped fermentations." Food Res. 3:453-465. 
HOHL, L., and W. V. CRUESS. 1936. "Effect of tem­
perature, variety of juice and method of increas­
ing sugar content on maximum alcohol produc­
tion by Saccharomyces ellipsoideus." Food Res. 
1:405-41l. 
HOPKINS, R. H., and R. H. ROBERTS. 1935a. "The 
kinetics of alcoholic fermentation by brewers 
yeast. 1. Effect of concentrations of yeast and 
sugar." Biochem.J. 29:919-930. 
HOPKINS, R. H., and R. H. ROBERTS. 1935b. "The 
kinetics of alcoholic fermentation by brewers 
yeast. 2. The relative rates of fermentation of 
glucose and fructose." Biochem.J. 29:931-936. 240 Red and White Table Wines 
HOUTMAN, A. C., and C. S. Du PLESSIS. 1981. "The 
effect of juice clarity and several conditions pro­
moting yeast growth or fermentation rate, the 
production of aroma components and wine 
quality." S. Afric.]. Enol. Vitic. 2:71-81. 
HOUTMAN, A. C., and C. S. Du PLESSIS. 1986. 
"Nutritional deficiencies of clarified white grape 
juices and their correction in relation to fermen­
tation." S. Afric.]. Enol. Vitic. 7:39-44. 
JACOB, F. C., T. E. ARCHER, and]. G. B. CASTOR. 
1964. "Thermal death time of yeast." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 15:69-74. 
JAKOB, L. 1984. Taschenbuch der Kellerwirtschaft. Weis­
baden, Germany, Fachverlag Dr. Fraund. 
JONES, R. S., and C. S. OUGH. 1985. "Variations in 
the percent ethanol v Iv per Brix conversions of 
wines from different climatic regions." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 36:268-270. 
KANTz, K., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1990. "Isolation 
and determination of polymeric polyphenols us­
ing Sephadex LH-20 and analysis of grape tissue 
extracts." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:223-228. 
KRAus, ]. K., G. REED, and]. C. VILLETTAZ. 1983. 
"Levures seches actives de vinification." Conn. 
Vigne Vin 17:93-103. 
LAFON-LAFOURCADE, S., C. GENIEX, and P. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1985. "Les modalities de mise 
de oeuvre des ecore de levures en vinification." 
Conn. Vigne Vin 18:111-125. 
LARUE, F., C. GENIEX, M.-K. PARK, Y. MURAKAMI, S. 
LAFON-LAFOURCADE, and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 
1985. "Incidence de certains polysaccharides in­
soluble sur la fermentation alcoolique." Conn. 
Vigne Vin 19:41-52. 
LAy, H., and U. DRAEGER. 1991. "Profiles of pig­
ments from different red wines." Vitic. Enol. Sci. 
46:48-57. 
LONVAuo-FuNEL, A., C. DESENS, and A. jOYEux. 1985. 
"Stimulation de la fermentation malolactique 
par l'addition au Yin d'enveloppes cellulaires de 
levure et differents adjuvants de nature polysac­
charidique et azotee." Conn. Vigne Vin 
19:229-240. 
LOUREIRO, V., and N. VAN UDEN. 1982. "Effects of 
ethanol on the maximum temperature for 
growth of Saccharomyces cereuisiae: A model." 
Biotechnol. Bioeng. 24:1881-1884. 
MALFEITo-FERREIRA, M.,]. P. MILLER-GUERRA, and V. 
LoUREIRO. 1990. "Proton extrusion as an indica­
tor of the adaptive state of yeast starters for the continuous production of sparkling wines." Am. 
]. Enol. Vitic. 41:219-222. 
MARAIs,j. 1987. "Terpene concentrations and wine 
quality of Vitis vinifera L. cv. Gewiirztraminer as 
affected by grape maturity and cellar practices." 
Vitis 26:231-245. 
MARINo, M.,]. I. MESSIAS IGLESIAS, F. HENAO DAVILA, 
R. ZAMORA CORCHERO, AND I. MARECA CORTES. 
1983. "Presence et evolution des esters su­
perieurs, en fonction des differents factuers, au 
cours de la fermentation alcoolique." Rev. Fr. 
Oenol.90:41-48. 
MARsH, G. L. 1958. "Alcohol yield: Factors and 
methods." Am.]. Enol. 9:53-58. 
MARTINIERE, P. 1981. "Thermovinification et vinifi­
cation par maceration carbonique dans Ie Bor­
delais." In: Actualite Oenologies et Viticoles. P. 
Ribereau-Gayon and P. Sudraud, Eds., Paris: 
Dunod, 303-310. 
MINARIK, E., O. jUNGOVA, R. KOLLAR, and E. STUR­
OIK. 1992. "Wirkung verschiedener Hefezell­
wand- und Cellulose Praparate auf die alkoholis­
che Garung des Mostes." Mitt. Kloster. 42:13-15. 
MONK, P. R., and R.]. STORER. 1986. "The kinetics 
of yeast growth and sugar utilization in tirage. 
The influence of different methods of starter 
culture preparation and inoculum levels." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 37:72-76. 
MULLER-SPATH, H. 1982. "Elaboration de vins 
mousseux en continu." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 119:43-45. 
NAGEL, C. W., and L. W. WULF. 1979. "Changes in 
the anthocyanins, flavonoids and hydroxycinna­
mate acid esters during the fermentation and 
aging of Merlot and Cabemet Sauvignon." Am. 
]. Enol. Vitic. 30:111-116. 
OSZMIANSKI,]., and]. C. SAPIS. 1989. "Fractionation 
and identification of some low molecular weight 
grape seed phenolics." ]. Agric. Food Chem. 
37:1293-1297. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A. AMERINE. 1963. "Regional, 
varietal and type influences on the degree Brix 
and alcohol relationship of grape musts and 
wines." Hilgardia. 33: 585-599. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A. AMERINE. 1965. "Studies 
with controlled fermentations. 9. Bentonite 
treatment of grape juice prior to wine fermenta­
tion." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 16:185-194. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A. AMERINE. 1988. Methods of 
Analysis of Musts and Wines. New York: john 
Wiley and Sons. OUGH, C. S., J. F. GUYMON, and E. A. CROWELL. 
1966. "Formation of higher alcohols during 
grape juice fermentations at various tempera­
tures."]. Food Sci. 31:620-625. 
PEYRON, D., and M. FEUILLAT. 1985. "Essais com­
paratifs de cuves d'automaceration en bour­
gogne." Rev. d'Denol. 38:7-10. 
PONTALLIER, P., and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1983. "In­
fluence de l'aeration et du sulfitage sur l'evolu­
tion de la matiere colorante des vins rouges au 
cours de la phase d'elevage." Conn. Vigne Vin 
17:105-120. 
RAMEY, D. D., A. BERTRAND, C. S. OUGH, V. L. 
SINGLETON, and E. SANDERS. 1986. "Effects of 
skin contact temperature on Chardonnay must 
and wine composition." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
37:99-106. 
RANKINE, B. C. 1963. "Nature, origin and preven­
tion of hydrogen sulphide aroma in wines." ]. 
Sci. Food Agric. 14:79-91 
RANKINE, B. C., and A. D. WEBB. 1958. "Comparison 
of anthocyanin pigments of Vinifera grapes." Am. 
].Enol.9:105-110. 
RIBEREAu-GAYON,]. 1953. "Etude experimentale de 
la vinification en blanc." Paper presented at 7th 
Congo Intl. Vigne et Vin. Rome. 
RIBEREAu-GAYON, P. 1974. "The chemistry of red 
wine color." In The Chemistry of Winemaking, 4th 
ed., A. D. Webb, Ed., Am. Chem. Soc. Symposium 
Series No. 137. Washington, DC: Am. Chern Soc. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON, P. 1985. "New developments in 
wine microbiology." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:1-10. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON,]., E. PEYNAUD, P. RlBEREAU-GAYON, 
and P. SUDRAUD. 1975. Sciences et Techniques du 
Vin. Paris: Dunod. 
RICARDO DA SILVA, ]. M. 1990. "Separation and 
quantitative determination of grape and wine 
procyanidins by high performance reversed 
phase liquid chromatography."]' Sci. Food Agric. 
53:85-92. 
RICARDO DA SILVA,]. M., M. BOURZIEX, V. CHEYNIER, 
and M. MOUTOUNET. 1991a. "Procyanidin com­
position of Chardonnay, Mauzac and Grenache 
blanc grapes." Vitis 30:245-252. 
RICARDO DA SILVA,]. M., V. CHEYNIER, J-M. SOUQUET, 
and M. MOUTOUNET. 1991b. "Interaction of 
grape seed procyanidins with various proteins in 
relation to wine fining." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
57:111-125. Red and White Table Wines 241 
RICARDO DA SILVA,]. M., J-P. ROSEc, M. BOURZIEX,]. 
MOURGUES, and M. MOUTOUNET. 1992. "Dimer 
and trimer procyanidins in Carignan and 
Mourvedre grapes and red wines." Vitis 
31:55-63. 
RICKER, R. w., ]. ]. MAROIS, ]. W. DLOTT, R. M. 
BOSTOCK, and ]. C. MORRISON. 1991. "Im­
munodetection and quantification of Botrytis 
cinerea on harvested wine grapes." Phytopathology 
81:404-41l. 
ROGGERO,]. P., B. RAGONNET, and S. COEN. 1984. 
"Analyse fine des anthocyanes des vins et des 
pelliculules de raisin par I a technique HPLC." 
Vigne Vins 327:38-42. 
ROSSI, ]. A., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1966. "Flavor 
effects and adsorptive properties of purified 
fractions of grapeseed phenols." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 17:240-246. 
Ruocco, J.]., R. W. COE, and C. W. HAHN. 1980. 
"Computer assisted exotherm measurement in 
full-scale brewery fermentations." Mast. Brew. 
Assoc. Am. Tech. Qy,art. 17:69-76. 
SALAGOITY-AuGUSTE, M-H., and A. BERTRAND. 1984. 
"Wine phenolics-Analysis of low molecular 
weight components by high performance liquid 
chromatography." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
35:1241-1247. 
SCHANDERL, H. 1959. Die Mikrobiologie des Mostes und 
Weines. Stuttgart, Germany: Eugen Ulmer. 
SCHUTZ, M., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1977. "Formation of 
hydrogen sulfide from elemental sulfur during 
fermentation by wine yeast." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
28:137-144. 
SHIBATA, M. 1979. "Control of alcoholic fermenta­
tion by use of a gas meter." Hakkogaku 
57:445-452. 
SIEBERT, K.]., P. H. BLUM, T. ]. WISK, L. E. STEN­
ROOS, and W. ]. ANKLAM. 1986. "The effect of 
tmb on fermentation." Mast. Brew. Assoc. A mer. 
Techn. Qy,art. 23:37-43. 
SIEGRIST,]. 1985. "Les tannins et les anthocyanes du 
pinot et les phenomenes de maceration." Rev. 
Denol. 38:11-13. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1987. "Oxygen with phenols and 
related reactions in musts, wines and model sys­
tems: Observations and practical implications." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:69-77. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and D. E. DRAPER. 1964. "The 
transfer of polyphenolic compounds from grape 
seeds into wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 15:34-40. 242 Red and White Table Wines 
SINGLETON, V. L., H. A. SIEBERHAGEN, P. DE WET, 
and C. ]. VAN WYK. 1975. "Composition and 
sensory qualities of wines prepared from white 
grapes by fermentation with and without grape 
solids." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 26:62-69. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and E. K TROUSDALE. 1992. 
"Anthocyanin-tannin interactions explaining 
differences in polymeric phenols between white 
and red wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 43:63-70. 
SOMERS, T. c., and M. E. EVANS. 1977. "Spectral 
evaluation of young red wines: Anthocyanin 
equilibria, total phenolics, free and molecular 
S02 and chemical age." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
28:279-287. 
SOMERS, T. C., and M. E. EVANS. 1979. "Grape 
pigment phenomena: Interpretation of major 
color loss during vinification." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
30:623-633. 
SOMERS, T. C., and M. E. EVANS. 1986. "Evolution of 
red wines. 1. Ambient influences on color com­
position during early maturation." Vitis 
25:31-39. 
SOMERS, T. C., and K F. POCOCK. 1990. "Evolution 
of red wines. 3. Promotion of the maturation 
phase." Vitis 29:109-121. 
SOMERS, T. c., and E. VERETTE. 1988. "Phenolic 
composition of natural wines." In, Modem Meth­
ods of Plant Analysis, New Series, Vol. 6, H. F. 
Linkens and ]. F. Jackson, Eds., Berlin: 
Springer-Verlag. 
SOMERS, T. C., and G. WESCOMBE. 1987. "Evolution 
of red wines. 2. An assessment of the role of 
acetaldehyde." Vitis 26:27-36. 
SPONHOLZ, W. R., K D. MILLIES, and A. AMBROSI. 
1990. "Die Wirkung von Hefezellwanden auf die 
Vergarung." Wein Wissen. 45:50-57. 
STREHAIANO, P., M. MOTA, and G. GoMA. 1983. "Ef­
fects of inoculum level on kinetics of alcoholic 
fermentation." Biotechnol. Lett. 5: 135-140. 
TERCEL], D. 1965. "Etude des composes azotes du 
vin." Ann. Technol. Agric. 14:307-319. 
THOMAS, C. S., R. B. BOULTON, M. W. SILACCI, and 
W. D. GUBLER. 1993a. "The effect of elemental 
sulfur, yeast strain and fermentation medium on 
the hydrogen sulfide production during fermen­
tation." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 44:211-216. 
THOMAS, C. S., W. D. GUBLER, M. W. SILACCI, and R. 
MILLER. 1993b. "Changes in the elemental 
residues of Pinot noir and Cabernet Sauvignon grape berries during the growing season." Am. 
]. Enol. Vitic. 44:205-210. 
THORNGATE,]. 1992. Flavan-3-ols and their polymers 
in grapes and wines: Chemical and sensory prop­
erties. PhD dissertation, Davis, CA: University of 
California. 
THORNTON, R. ]., and S. B. RODRIGUEZ. 1986. 
"Genetics of wine microorganisms: Potentials 
and problems." Proc. 6th Aust. Wine Ind. Tech. 
Conf. pp. 98-102. 
THOUKIS, G., G. REED, and R. ]. BOUTHILET. 1963. 
"Production and use of compressed yeast for 
winery fermentations." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
14:148-154. 
TROMP, A. 1984. "The effect of yeast strain, grape 
solids, nitrogen and temperature on fermenta­
tion rate and wine quality." S. Afric.]. Enol. Vitic. 
5:1-6. 
TROOST, G. 1980. Technologie des Weines. Stuttgart, 
Germany: Verlag Eugen Ulmer. 
VAN BALEN,]. 1984. Recovery of anthocyanins and 
other phenols from converting grapes into wine. 
MS thesis, Davis, CA: University of California. 
VAN UOEN, N., P. ABRk"lCHES, and C. CABECA-SILVA. 
1968. "Temperature functions of thermal death 
in yeasts and their relation to the maximum 
temperature for growth." Arch. Mikrobiol. 
61:381-393. 
VAN WYK, C.]. 1978. "The influence of juice clari­
fication on composition and quality of wines." 
Proc. 5th Intl. Oenol. Symp. Auckland, N.Z. pp. 
33-45. 
VILLETTAZ, ].-C., D. STEINER, and H. TROGUS. 1984. 
"The use of beta-glucanase as an enzyme in 
wine clarification and filtration." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 35:253-256. 
VON DER LIPPE, H. 1894. Die Weinbereitung und die 
Kellenvirtschaft. Weimar, Germany: B. F. Voigt. 
Vos, P.]. A., and R. S. GRAY. 1979. "The origin and 
control of hydrogen sulfide during fermentation 
of grape must." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 30:187-197. 
WENZEL, K, H. H. DEITRICH, H. P. SEWFARDT, and]. 
BOHNERT. 1980. "Schwefelruckstande auf 
Trauben und im Most und ihr Einfluss auf die 
H2S Bildung." Wein Wissen. 35:414-420. 
WHEAT, ]. K 1991. An automated fermentation 
monitoring system. MS thesis, Davis, CA: Univer­
sity of California. WILDENRADT, H. L., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1974. 
"The production of aldehydes as a result of 
polyphenolic compounds and its relation to wine 
aging." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 25:119-126. 
WILLIAMS, J. T., C. S. OUGH, and H. W. BERG. 1978. 
"White wine composition and quality as influ­
enced by methods of must clarification." Am. ]. 
Enol. Vitic. 29:92-96. 
WILLIAMS, L. A. 1982. "Heat release in alcoholic 
fermentation: A critical reappraisal." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 33: 149- 153. 
WILLIAMS, L. A., and R. B. BOULTON. 1983. "Model­
ing and prediction of evaporative ethanol loss 
during wine fermentations." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
34:234-242. Red and White Table Wines 243 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K AND G. BRETTHAUER. 1969. "Der 
Einfluss der Bentonitbehandlung des Mostes auf 
die Aromabildung wah rend der Garung." Wein 
Wissen. 24:443-451. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K A."ID G. BRETTHAUER. 1970. 
"Uber die Bildung von fluchtigen Aromastoffen 
in Traubenwein in Abhangigkeit von der 
Mostvorbehandlung sowie von der verwendeten 
heferasse." Mitt. Kloster. 20:36-46. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K AND H. DIETRICH. 1982. 
"Verbesserung der Filterierfahigkeit von Weinen 
durch enzymatischen Abbau von kohlenhy­
drathaltigen Kolloiden." Weinwirt. 118:598-603. 
WURDIG, G. AND H. A. SCHLOTTER. 1969. "Un­
tersuchungen zur Aufstellung einer S02-Bilanz 
im Wein." Deut. Wein Ztg. 105:34-42. CHAPTER 6 
MALOLACTIC FERMENTATION 
INTRODUCTION 
This chapter defines the malolactic fermenta­
tion and covers the practical aspects of the 
fermentation under winemaking conditions, 
including its control. The chapter also de­
scribes fundamental aspects, that is, the inter­
mediary metabolism of the malolactic bacteria 
with respect to malic acid. For convenience, 
the taxonomy of the wine-related lactic acid 
bacteria, which embrace the malolactic bacte­
ria, is also included here. 
In addition to the alcoholic fermentation, 
other microbial activities, with positive and 
negative effects, are associated with winemak­
ing. This includes the secondary fermentations 
of sparkling wine and flor sherry and various 
microbial spoilages. Of these secondary wine 
fermentations, those carried out by the malo­
lactic bacteria, are probably the most inten­
sively studied. The word malolactic comes from 
the conversion of L-malic acid to L-Iactic acid, 
the operative activity of these bacteria. While 
regarded in some cases as a spoilage activity, 
under proper circumstances, the malolactic 
244 fermentation, either naturally expected or ar­
tificially encouraged, can be a normal part of 
good winemaking practice-something to be 
appreciated and desired. General review arti­
cles on malolactic fermentation spanning sev­
eral decades include: Radler (1966), Kunkee 
(1967a, 1974, 1991), Beelman and Gallander 
(1979), Wibowo et al. (1985), Davis et al. (1986), 
and Edwards and Beelman (1989). 
The bacterial causes of the malolactic fer­
mentation were noted a century ago by early 
wine microbiologists, uncharacteristically not 
including Pasteur (Kunkee, 1968). However, 
the modern awareness of the significance of 
the fermentation in winemaking can be said to 
have two origins: from the realization of the 
absolute requirement for this fermentation in 
wines of Burgundy, with the practices em­
ployed to ensure its occurrence; and from the 
rather sudden awareness three decades ago in 
California of the coincidence of the occur­
rence of the malolactic fermentation in many 
of the wines from California with the percep­
tion that these same wines were those of gen­
erally higher quality {Ingraham and Cooke 1960). These two cases illustrate the most no­
table and positive effects brought about by the 
malolactic fermentation, namely, the deacidi­
fication, the bacteriological stabilization, and 
the increased flavor and aroma complexity. 
Currently the malolactic fermentation is rec­
ognized, and most often desired, in virtually 
every wine growing region of the world 
(Kunkee 1967a)-for one or more of the three 
properties just mentioned. Wherever tested, a 
large percentage of the premium red wines of 
the world have had malolactic fermentation, 
whether or not so recognized by the wine­
maker. 
From a microbiologist's point of view, the 
time span of the malolactic fermentation be­
gins at the introduction, purposely or acciden­
tally, of viable bacteria into the wine or must, 
and ends when the bacteria have gone through 
the growth phase and have reentered their 
final resting or stationary phase. However, the 
winemaker is more likely to think of the fer­
mentation as beginning when there is a no­
ticeable drop in the concentration of malic 
acid, and as being completed when the malic 
acid has finally disappeared. Thus, the deacid­
ification aspects of the malolactic fermenta­
tion have to do with this feature, and we 
employ the term malolactic conversion for the 
deacidification feature. We reserve the term 
malolactic fermentation to refer to the other as­
pects of the complete cycle, such as the stabil­
ity brought about by uptake of micronutrients 
during growth and flavor changes brought 
about by formation of end products. 
These three major effects of the malolactic 
fermentation in winemaking are discussed in 
the following sections. 
A. DEACIDIFICATION BY 
MALOLACTIC CONVERSION 
The operative activity of malolactic bacteria, 
and that uniquely found in this group of mi­
croorganisms, is the capacity to convert malic 
acid to lactic acid. This conversion is now 
established as being a direct decarboxylation, Malolactic Fermentation 245 
by a single enzyme, and essentially stoichio­
metric (Figure 6-1), but see Section I. Histori­
cal arguments leading to these conclusions are 
given by Kunkee (l967a, 1974, 1975). In addi­
tion to the decarboxylation of malic acid by 
these kinds of bacteria, they also have the 
capacity to metabolize citric acid (Vetsch and 
Luthi 1964). Citric acid is present in only small 
amounts in grapes and in wine, unless added. 
The metabolism of citric acid is not always 
seen in commercial winemaking; however, this 
metabolism can have an important influence 
on the formation of diacetyl, and thus on the 
flavor of the wine (Section C.2). 
The two aspects of deacidification, the de­
crease in titratable acidity and the increase in 
pH, have important, but nearly separate, con­
sequences for the winemaker. On the one 
hand, the perception of sourness comes essen­
tially from the titratable acidity (Amerine and 
Roessler 1983); thus wines too tart will benefit 
from having undergone malolactic conversion, 
but those already too flat will be further spoiled 
by this microbial activity. On the other hand, 
the microbial stability of the wine is primarily 
influenced by the pH. The winemaker needs 
COOH 
I 
HO-CH 
I 
CH:! 
I 
COOH 
L(-)·malic acid NAD + 
Mn ++ COOH 
I 
HO-CH + COo! t 
I 
CH3 
L(+l-Iactic acid 
Fig. 6-1. Malolactic conversion. The conversion is a di­
rect decarboxylation of L(-)-malic acid to L( + )-lactic acid. 
The released carboxyl group is represented as anhydrous 
carbon dioxide, but in fact has been shown to be released 
in the hydrated form (Pilone and Kunkee 1970). The acids 
are depicted as being completely undissassociated; how­
ever at wine pH, they are partly in the ionized form [in 
wine, the pKa] of malic acid is 3.45 and the pKa of lactic 
acid is 3.78 (Kunkee 1967a)]. Although NAD+ is shown as 
a cofactor, not being consumed in the reaction, in fact a 
very small amount « 0.2%) is reduced, giving the same 
small amounts of pyruvic acid and NADH as end products. 
Nevertheless, the "malolactic enzyme," malate carboxy 
lyase, is not to be confused with other malate decarboxyl­
ases, where pyruvic acid or oxaloacetic acid is the major 
end product. 246 Malolactic Fermentation 
to be alert to the increased susceptibility of 
wines to further microbial and chemical attack 
brought about by the elevation of pH resulting 
from the malolactic conversion (Chapter 9). 
1. Decrease in Titratable Acidity 
The stoichiometric loss of one carboxyl group 
per molecule of malic acid during malolactic 
conversion (Figure 6-1) should make the ex­
tent of the deacidification resulting from mal­
olactic fermentation quantitatively predictable. 
That is, the titratable acidity should be re­
duced by one-half of that represented by malic 
acid (expressed as tartaric acid where this con­
vention is used for expressing titratable acid­
ity) found before the malolactic conversion. In 
practice, several other activities may upset this 
convenient relationship. For example, titrat­
able acidity may be altered by additional for­
mation of lactic acid from residual sugar-in­
eluding pentoses, which the yeasts ignore­
during malolactic fermentation, by catabolism 
of malic acid by wine yeasts themselves, or by 
loss of potassium bitartrate by precipitation if 
the wine is already saturated with this ion and 
if the pH before the malolactic conversion is 
below pH3.56. (The latter value is the mid­
point pH between the two disassociation con­
stants of tartaric acid and where potassium 
bitartrate ion is the prevalent ionic species.) 
2. Increase in pH 
The change in pH resulting from malolactic 
conversion is not so easily predicted. The in­
crease in pH depends upon the buffering ca­
pacity of the medium (wine), and thus on the 
concentrations of the various weak acids be­
fore and after the decarboxylation, and also 
on the starting pH. Furthermore, lactic acid is 
a weaker acid than malic acid; the pKa of 
lactic acid is greater than the pKa] of malic 
acid (see Figure 6-1). Equations have been set 
up for prediction of the change in pH (Kunkee 
1967b) supposing the conversion to take place 
completely after the alcoholic fermentation. 
For this, various assumptions were made in-eluding the constancy of concentrations of the 
total tartrate anions and of the major cations 
during the conversion, taking the change in 
concentration of ammonium ions to be negli­
gible. The calculations showed that with nomi­
nal amounts of acidity, the greatest pH change, 
as much as 0.2 units, was found when the 
initial pH was around pH 3.4. When starting 
pHs were lower, where the change in pH 
coming from the deacidification is not so im­
portant from a bacteriological stabilization 
point, the theoretical increase in pH was only 
0.1 unit or less. Ordinarily, however, the flavor 
effect of acidity decrease is most desired m 
high-acid, low-pH, sour-tasting wines. 
3. Secondary Effects of Deacidification 
Besides the effects on the sensory perception 
and on the biological stability of malolactically 
converted wine, a change in color also is found 
in red wine following the activity of these 
bacteria. A sizable loss in red color comes 
from equilibrium shifts in anthocyanin pig­
ments' configurations resulting from the in­
crease in pH. If the conversion brings about 
an unusually high pH, the quality of the color 
may also change, from a full red to bluish hue. 
In addition, Vetsch and Luthi (1964) pointed 
out that a further potential loss of color could 
come from the bacterial catabolism of citric 
acid, the latter being a carbon source ulti­
mately providing NADH for reduction some­
how of anthocyanin. However, citric acid is 
generally not attacked until well after the mal­
olactic conversion is finished, if at all, and 
seems to be dependent upon the strain of 
bacteria, the state of aerobiosis of the wine, 
and perhaps the presence of glucose. (Section 
C.2). 
4. Adjustment of Acidity after 
Deacidification 
Under situations of initially moderate or low 
acidities in grape musts or wines, the malolac­
tic conversion may bring about the need for 
use of acidulating agents to bring the titratable acidity and pH back to acceptable values. For 
this, the use of neither malic acid nor citric 
acid is recommended. Unless the wine has 
been rendered completely free from malolac­
tic bacteria, the addition of malic acid will 
bring about a continuation of bacterial activ­
ity, and considerable loss of the acid added. 
Metabolism of added citric acid, even if mini­
mal, by residual leuconostocs will very likely 
result in production of objectionable amounts 
of diacetyl (Section C.2). This leaves tartaric 
acid as the acidulating agent of choice, in spite 
of its sometimes being the most expensive of 
these acids, and in spite of the foreknowledge 
that much of the acidulating power will be 
precipitated. A fourth possible acidulating 
agent is lactic acid, however, commercial 
preparations of this product are generally re­
covered from lactic acid bacterial fermenta­
tions and carry with them small amounts of 
impurities with high flavor profiles, especially 
reminiscent of spoilage malolactic fermenta­
tions. It should be noted that commercial 
preparations of malic acid are most often re­
covered from apple wastes, and if so, the prod­
uct is the natural [L(-)] isomer. In some cases, 
the product has been produced by chemical 
processes and then is composed of both the 
L(-).. and the D( + )..isomers of malic acid. The 
D-isomer, which has been approved as an 
acidulating agent for wine in the United States, 
is not catabolized by lactic acid bacteria. 
B. BACTERIOLOGICAL STABILITY 
FOLLOWING MALOLACTIC 
FERMENTATION 
The most important consequence of the malo­
lactic fermentation in warmer wine regions, 
where the decreased acidity is frequently a 
liability, is the effect of stabilization of the 
wine against further growth by any lactic acid 
bacteria. The malolactic bacteria are prover­
bially nutritionally fastidious; the accepted wis­
dom is that during their growth they bring 
about an uptake, and thus, a depletion of Malolactic Fermentation 247 
micronutrients, rendering the medium, espe­
cially nutritionally poor media such as wine, 
incapable of supporting any further growth of 
such fastidious microorganisms. For this rea­
son, and for the concerns expressed in the 
next paragraph, it is important for the wine­
maker to supply a known and trustworthy mal­
olactic strain when bacteriological stabilization 
is the objective. 
Evidence from practical winemaking opera­
tions supports this viewpoint. Nevertheless, it 
has been suggested (Davis et al. 1986) that the 
increased pH resulting from one round of 
malolactic fermentation can allow for second 
or third growths of other resident strains of 
lactic acid bacteria, strains which themselves 
are not so nutritionally fastidious, but which 
are more sensitive to the initially low pH as 
compared to the first-round bacteria. Further­
more, in the cases where the malolactic fer­
mentation is induced to occur along with the 
alcoholic fermentation, or when it occurs dur­
ing storage of new wine on the yeast lees (as 
with the practice of sur lies in Burgundy), 
adequate nutrients would be present to sup­
port more than one bloom of lactic acid bac­
teria. Nonetheless, we accept the anecdotal 
evidence that in the commercial situation, wine 
is rendered malolactically stable by this treat­
ment. Whenever we have seen microbiological 
activity in wine that has already undergone 
malolactic fermentation, the spoilage has al­
ways been from yeast, acetic acid bacteria, or 
bacilli. Blending of a malolactically stabilized 
wine with one not so stabilized is another 
source of refermentation. 
With a few exceptions (Pilone and Kunkee 
1965; Prahl et al. 1988; Edwards et al. 1993), 
wine strains of the genus Lactobacillus have 
made poorly defined contributions to wine 
complexity and quality. Actually, some Califor­
nia winemakers have recently become aware 
of wild strains of lactobacilli, which have ap­
peared as potent wine spoilage agents having 
nothing to do with their malolactic capabili­
ties. More concerning these organisms, and 
their control, is given in Chapter 9. 248 Malolactic Fermentation 
C. FLAVOR CHANGES FROM 
MALOLACTIC FERMENTATION 
1. Strain Specificity 
The difference in titratable acidity brought 
about by the malolactic conversion is usually 
the change most easily detected by the senses. 
Sometimes more noticeable than the change 
in acidity are the unfortunate, and hopefully 
rare, sensory changes brought about by infec­
tion of wines by spoilage strains of malolactic 
bacteria. We have been able to produce, con­
sistently, experimental wines with the off­
flavors reminiscent of damp, moldy wood by 
use of one strain of pediococci (UCD Enology 
C-5) to carry out the malolactic fermentation. 
This example serves to emphasize the impor­
tance of strain selection for malolactic fermen­
tation, not only for deacidification, but with 
respect to flavors-contrasted to the situation 
for selection of wine yeast strains for the alco­
holic fermentation (Chapter 4). 
Alternatively, it is expected that desirable 
end products, specifically associated with vari­
ous nonspoilage strains of malolactic bacteria, 
are also made. However, in red wine the flavor 
effect of most of these malic fermenters is 
subtile and generally not perceived except un­
der rigid taste panel conditions-in which 
case, one bacterial strain might be said to 
produce a wine with more complexity of flavor 
than another (Pilone and Kunkee 1965). An 
exception is diacetyl, an end product with a 
low sensory threshold. 
2. Diacetyl Formation 
In the pure form, diacetyl (2,3-butane dione) 
is described as having various odors including 
those of butter, rancid butter, or butterscotch 
-probably depending upon concentration of 
the compound. An earlier judgment that the 
malolactic fermentation is a spoilage phe­
nomenon comes from malolactic fermenta­
tions that brought about an excess formation 
(> 5 mg/L) of diacetyl (Rankine et al. 1969), 
which is easily detected by its odor, even in red wines (Kunkee et al. 1965). In white wine 
production, the flavorful end products of mal­
olactic fermentation are more apparent and 
the fermentation makes a stronger contribu­
tion to the bouquet-and to the style of wine 
expected. The malolactic tone of some mod­
ern-day California Chardonnay wines, emulat­
ing Burgundian white wines, undoubtedly 
comes from a noticeable production of di­
acetyl. Bacterial formation of diacetyl arises 
mainly from catabolism of citric acid, which 
under winemaking conditions occurs generally 
after all of the malic acid has been converted. 
The metabolism of diacetyl from citric acid 
has been studied mostly in streptococci, that 
is, lactococci (Harvey and Collins 1963; 
Kiimmel et al. 1975; Hugenholtz and Starren­
burg 1992), but some studies have been made 
in leuconostocs (Collins 1972). There seem to 
be two pathways of catabolism of citric acid 
(Figure 6-2). In the more familiar pathway, 
found in yeast (Chapter 4) and most of the 
lactic acid bacteria, citric acid is split to ox­
aloacetic and acetic acids. The oxaloacetic acid 
is de carboxylated to give pyruvic acid. The 
catabolism of pyruvic acid is the same as that 
shown in yeast metabolism in the formation of 
valine and isobutyl alcohol (Figure 4-18). The 
decarboxylation of pyruvic acid, and the com­
plexing with the coenzyme thiamine py­
rophosphate, give a product called active­
acetaldehyde. The latter further combines with 
another molecule of pyruvic acid to give a­
acetolactic acid. Diacetyl then comes from an 
oxidative decarboxylation of a-acetolactic acid. 
However, in bacteria which cannot make va­
line, such as most of the wine leuconostocs 
(Weiller and Radler 1972; Benda 1982), a­
acetolactic acid is not formed (Figures 4-18 
and 6-2). In these bacteria, diacetyl apparently 
arises directly from the condensation of acetyl­
CoA with active-acetaldehyde (Collins 1972), 
the acetyl-CoA coming from oxidative reaction 
of coenzyme-A with another active-acetalde­
hyde. In both pathways of diacetyl formation, 
an oxidation step is involved. In the second citrate 
2 citrate --\: 2 oxaloacetate 
2 acetate oxaloacetate 
decarboxylase 2 C02 
pyruvate 
pyruvate CO2 -4 TTP-C2* 
------~--=->. u-acetolactate 
C~:r 
diacetyl 
pyruvate o 0 reductase HO 0 
IIII r: III CH3C-C-CH3 CH3C-C-CH3 c;,2 acetyl r ~ TIP-c*r CoA 
CoASH 
CO2 -4 * TIP-C pyruvate 
* active acetaldehyde diacetyl acetoin 
NAD(P)H, H+ NAD(P)+ 
HO OH 
I I 
C~C-C-CH3 
butylene glycol 
Fig. 6-2. Pathways of diacetyl formation. NAD(P) 250 Malolactic Fermentation 
pathway, one would think that the presence of 
pyruvic acid would be sufficient for formation 
of diacetyl without involving the utilization of 
citric acid. However, pyruvic acid is normally 
present only in small concentrations 10 to 50 
mg/L (Rankine 1967). Even when it is exter­
nally supplied, only a comparatively small 
amount is degraded (Radler 1975). Pan­
tothenic acid is a part of the coenzyme-A 
molecule and part of the pathway of its forma­
tion is identical to the pathways for valine/iso­
leucine. Thus, most of the wine leuconostocs 
also need an exogenous source of this vitamin. 
There are some indications that energy from 
citric acid metabolism is also coming from 
chemiosmotic uptake of citric acid (Hugen­
holtz et al. 1993), as has also been suggested 
for the uptake of malic acid (Section I). The 
presence of glucose may be required for citric 
acid uptake in some bacterial strains. 
From the mechanisms involved, it is not 
surprising that diacetyl formation is depen­
dent on the bacterial strain (Kunkee et al. 
1965; Rankine et al. 1969), the oxygen con­
centration or the redox potential of the 
medium (Krieger et al. 1993; Bassit et al. 1993), 
and the catabolism of citric acid, after the 
malic acid has disappeared. Thus, the sur lies 
condition-with extended duration of storage, 
low concentration of sulfur dioxide, and im­
posed stirring regimes-tends to encourage 
diacetyl production. In the discussion of di­
acetyl production by yeast, which is also influ­
enced by aeration (Chapter 4), it was pointed 
out that in wine, the diacetyl production by 
bacteria is far more important than the small 
amount which might be produced by yeast 
during vinification. 
Two other end products, acetoin (3-hy­
droxy-2-butanone) and butylene glycol (2,3-
butane diol), are closely related to diacetyl 
(2,3-butane dione), although neither of them 
has a significant impact on the sensory charac­
teristics of wine (Figure 6-2). The relative 
amounts of each of these three compounds 
apparently depends upon the state of aerobio­
sis/anaerobiosis of the cell. Acetoin can be formed either by the decarboxylation (not ox­
idative) of a-acetolactic acid (by acetolactate 
decarboxylase), or the reduction of diacetyl 
(by diacetyl reductase), with NADH or NADPH 
as cofactor. Acetoin can itself be reduced, with 
the same cofactors, to butylene glycol (by ace­
toin reductase). The latter enzyme reaction is 
the only one of the group which is reversible. 
3. Other End Products 
Important as diacetyl is, there is evidence from 
early work of other flavor components brought 
about by the malolactic fermentation (Pilone 
and Kunkee 1965). Modern evidence for these 
components has been in the application of 
sniff gas chromatography (Acree et al. 1984) to 
wines with and without malolactic fermenta­
tion (Henick-Kling 1993), if not in the actual 
sensory examination of the wines themselves. 
Histamine is not a flavor component of 
wines, but its formation is of concern since it is 
thought, apparently erroneously, to be the ori­
gin of physiological distress experienced by 
some individuals following ingestion of red 
wine (Ough et al. 1987). A wide range of 
concentrations of histamine have been re­
ported in red wines, in which their presence 
seems to be of greater concern as compared to 
white wines, with an average of about 5 mg/L 
(Frohlich and Battaglia 1980). It has been sup­
posed that histamine arises from enzymatic 
decarboxylation of the amino acid histidine, 
possibly during malolactic bacterial fermenta­
tion, even though Weiller and Radler (1976) 
showed that most wine lactic acid bacteria do 
not contain this enzyme. More recent research 
has substantiated this, that histamine is not 
produced by malolactic bacteria (Ough et al. 
1987; Delfini 1989) in the presence or absence 
of histidine. However, other workers monitor­
ing red wines during and after the alcoholic 
and malolactic fermentations, and during stor­
age, found a small, but quite variable forma­
tion of histamine and other biogenic amines 
such as tyramine (Buteau et al. 1984; Vidal­
Carou et al. 1990, Vidal-Carou et al. 1991). D. MALOLACTIC FERMENTATION 
AND WINE STYLE 
The various changes associated with malolactic 
fermentations (already discussed) provide 
winemakers with a range of options for affect­
ing specific wine styles-traditional ones or 
those newly inspired. The employment of these 
changes is reviewed here. Procedures to in­
duce or to prevent the changes are given in 
the next section. 
1. Red Wines 
Most of the red wines of the world, including a 
high proportion of the premium ones, un­
dergo malolactic fermentation, the attributes 
of the fermentations to be exploited being 
greatly dictated by the climate. In cold regions 
where acid levels in grapes at harvest are high, 
the change in acidity is needed. Indeed, in 
some regions the initial acidity is too high for 
the wines to be palatable without the malolac­
tic conversion. In warmer regions, the wines 
are already more or less deficient in 
acidity-here the fermentation is favored to 
provide for bacteriological stability. In the rare 
cases of premium red wines stored for delayed 
release, in which the malolactic fermentation 
has not occurred by bottling time, the wine­
maker usually assumes that the wine is not 
susceptible to the secondary fermentation and 
it is bottled without any special precautions. 
With red wines for early consumption, this 
assumption cannot be made if the malolactic 
fermentation has not yet occurred. Here the 
winemaker must take special measures (see 
below) to prevent the malolactic activity from 
taking place in the bottle. Of course, such 
fermentation in the bottle gives turbid and 
gassy wines, as found historically in the vinhos 
verdes (see below). In general, in the produc­
tion of red wine, the effect of flavor enhance­
ments coming from malolactic fermentation, 
except that from changes in acidity or those 
which should be classified as spoilages, the 
sensory effect is not the chief feature. Malolactic Fermentation 251 
The special style of red wine production 
utilizing carbonic maceration, as currently 
practiced in Beaujolais (Flanzy 1972; Hiaring 
1974; McCorkle 1974; Flanzy and Andre 1973) 
involves the malolactic fermentation in an un­
usual way. With carbonic maceration, the mal­
olactic fermentation is essentially completed at 
about the same time as the alcoholic fermen­
tation, and without deliberate addition of bac­
teria. The stimulation of the bacterial growth 
seems to arise from the conditions of the vini­
fication during the first several days where the 
whole berries, as clusters, are immersed (the 
original sense of the word macerate) in carbon 
dioxide gas; ethanol is subsequently formed 
anaerobically by fermentation of the grape 
sugars inside the berry, by berry enzymes, and 
the ethanol remains inside the fruit until the 
berries are later pressed. Some juice is natu­
rally expressed during the filling of the tanks 
and during subsequent storage. The special 
conditions of this juice make it well able to 
support the rapid growth of indigenous bacte­
ria. These special conditions include the ab­
sence of ethanol, being retained in the berry; 
the high temperature of the operation, gener­
ally greater than 35°C; the absence of added 
sulfur dioxide; and the initially high concen­
tration of micronutrients, not yet having been 
depleted by yeast. The anaerobic conditions 
prevent the analogous growth of acetic acid 
bacteria. Mter the grapes are pressed, the 
alcoholic fermentation continues and is quickly 
completed. The special conditions seem to 
allow adequate red pigments to be extracted 
during the pressing operation, but leave be­
hind much of the astringent materials. Alto­
gether this results in a product that is more or 
less stable by all standards, including microbi­
ological, and one that is ready for immediate 
bottling and consumption. In France, these 
vins nouveaux can be marketed legally on the 
third Thursday of November as premeur wines, 
the first wines of the vintage. Some California 
wine makers have ventured to imitate this style 
of wine, calling them new wines or wines of 
the year-also aiming for the November date 252 Malolactic Fermentation 
for release. Very often, strict maceration car­
bonique is not employed; but other procedures, 
such as heavy fining and sterile filtration, are 
used to provide early stability and drinkability. 
Malolactic fermentations have not always been 
induced in these wines. 
2. White Wines 
Since the flavor and aroma inherently associ­
ated with white wines are less conspicuous as 
compared to those found in red wines, the 
presence of extra nongrape odors is generally 
intrusive in them. This explains why the malo­
lactic fermentation is found in only a relatively 
small portion of the world's white wines; and 
in most white wine, steps are taken to prevent 
the malolactic fermentation. Indeed, until re­
cently the malolactic fermentation was essen­
tially avoided in the white wines of Germany, 
even though one would expect that those wines 
would especially profit from the accompany­
ing deacidification. The delicate flavor charac­
teristics of wine made from typical German 
white varieties may be easily overwhelmed by 
the lactic acid bacterial activity, although the 
notion of this negative effect undoubtedly 
comes from an uncontrolled use of indige­
nous, and improper, bacterial strains (Kunkee 
1967a). It should be noted that there is now an 
increasing utilization of the malolactic conver­
sion for deacidification in German wine re­
gions, partly due to the increased production 
of red wines there, but also because of the 
ready availability of suitable cultures for inocu­
lation (Kreiger et al. 1993). 
As in red wines, the utilization of malolactic 
fermentation in white wine has, first of all, to 
do with the climate of the vineyards and the 
acidity of the wine. Notable examples are the 
wine regions of northern France, where the 
climate is generally so cool that not only is the 
fermentation required for deacidification, but 
the initial acidities are so high in the white 
wines as to all but prevent the growth of the 
operative bacteria. The Burgundian wine­
maker stores the wines on the yeast lees for several months after the alcoholic fermenta­
tion. This sur lies treatment provides for re­
lease from the lees of small-molecular-weight 
materials-amino acids and vitamins-from 
the settled yeast, which then serve as nutrients 
for the bacteria. This special use of the malo­
lactic fermentation has provided a unique style 
of Chardonnay production that is often mim­
icked in other regions, including California. 
In California the sur lies procedure is em­
ployed not out of necessity for encouraging 
bacterial growth, but to provide the special 
changes thought to occur during this treat­
ment and also thought by some winemakers to 
have a positive influence on the flavors of the 
wine. The treatment is sometimes applied to 
other white varieties also. It is clear that the 
malolactic fermentation can bring about im­
portant changes in flavor of white wines, 
largely dependent on the bacterial strain-the 
resulting formation of diacetyl tending to 
overwhelm the native floral and fruity tones. 
However, what is not clear is which style should 
be most favored. 
The sur lies treatment can also be used in 
white wine production for the stimulation of 
the growth of the bacteria, as needed. Much 
of the white wine production in the cold re­
gions of eastern Europe is produced by storing 
the wine over the winter in inert tanks in the 
naturally very cold cellars. The resulting wines 
have the needed deacidification, but still re­
tain the intended varietal attributes. Neverthe­
less, there is no doubt of the importance of 
sur lies for its influence on style. In the Chablis 
region, where the fruity style of Chardonnay 
production has been classic, it is increasingly 
common to find sur lies treatment in oak 
barrels as compared to the established prac­
tice there of storage in stainless steel tanks. 
This is being done apparently to emulate the 
flavors of the wines from the neighboring Cote 
de Beaune-and perhaps also to emulate their 
rather higher retail prices. See LaFollette 
(1991) for a discussion of the considerable 
literature on sur lies treatment and of the 
controversies over its influence on malolactic fermentation and on flavor of Chardonnay 
wines. 
The Champagne wine region of France is 
even colder than the other regions just men­
tioned. The grapes from this region are used, 
of course, especially for making the base wines 
used in the production of sparkling wines, the 
latter by the methode champenoise, the tradi­
tional procedure of the region (de Rosa 1987; 
Amerine et al. 1980; Troost and Haushofer 
1986). Because of the climate, the base wines 
are especially acidic, with pHs often of 3.0 or 
less, and the malolactic conversion is a very 
important part of the production. The re­
quired clarity of the final product demands 
that the malolactic fermentation take place 
before the secondary alcoholic fermentation, 
since it is impossible to remove the bacteria 
from the bottle during the riddling (remuage) 
operation, as is used for removing the yeast. 
Furthermore, the delicacy of flavors and the 
enhancement of aromas and bouquets by the 
effervescence of sparkling wines demand that 
the malolactic conversion occur without the 
addition of obvious bacterial flavor notes. The 
base wines are also stored in contact with yeast 
lees to encourage the bacterial growth; how­
ever, this is done in tanks, where the lees 
depth is high and surface low, as compared to 
such storage in smaller barrels. This seems to 
account for the minimal influence of the mal­
olactic fermentation on the flavor of the wines 
of Champagne, except for the flavor change 
in acidity. It is remarkable that the base wines, 
with their initially very low pHs, support the 
bacterial growth at all. Apparently, the rather 
low concentrations of ethanol and the rather 
long, if cold, storage times overcome the in­
hibitory influences. Possibly the strains of bac­
teria employed, which are indigenous to the 
region and which have been selected over the 
years, are especially tolerant to these condi­
tions. However, we are aware that bacterial 
strains that have been touted as being espe­
cially acid tolerant because they have been 
isolated from wines from cold regions, more 
often than not are successful strains for carry­
ing out the malolactic fermentation in these Malolactic Fermentation 253 
regions because of the lower ethanol content 
of the wines rather the special acid tolerance 
of the bacteria. The employment of malolactic 
conversion in sparkling wine production seems 
to be unique to the Champagne regions. It is 
generally not found in other sparkling wine 
regions, with the possible exception of some 
from New York state. 
Another interesting style of white wine pro­
duction employing the use of malolactic bacte­
ria is that of the Minho region of northern 
Portugal. Here the wines are traditionally very 
acidic, not from the influence of the climate, 
but rather from the viticultural practices. Cus­
tomarily, the grapevines here have been 
planted next to poplar trees, these tall trees 
becoming the support for very lofty, and nearly 
impossible to train, grapevines. It is equally 
impossible to control the quantity and quality 
of the fruit. The berries, precariously hand­
harvested from tall ladders, show the negative 
effects of the unavoidable overcropping. The 
resulting wines are thus named vinhos verdes 
(green wines), not from their color, but from 
the lack of ripeness in the harvested fruit. It is 
imperative that these wines undergo the malo­
lactic deacidification. Years ago this conver­
sion seemed to take place rather haphazardly, 
often by benign neglect after the wine had 
been bottled. The retention of the carbon 
dioxide in these wines gave then an added 
sensory dimension of effervescence and of 
consumer acceptance-and of the birth of a 
new style of wine. However, the turbidity in 
these wines, from the bacterial growth, was not 
so readily accepted; they generally became 
marketed in ceramic and then in opaque glass 
bottles to hide this defect. The haphazardness 
of the presence of the effervescence made the 
merchandising of these wines uncertain. Mod­
ern standards of quality control have now 
forced a change in procedure to induce the 
malolactic conversion prior to bottling and to 
substitute the bacterial effervescence with arti­
ficial carbonation. It is essentially impossible 
now to find any commercial example of an 
original-type vinho verde in the Minho. 254 Malolactic Fermentation 
E. CONTROLLING THE MALOLACTIC 
FERMENTATION 
Over the last few decades, research efforts, 
both fundamental and applied, have provided 
winemakers with a number of tools to allow 
encouragement or discouragement of the mal­
olactic fermentation. 
1. Metabolic Interactions between Yeast 
and Malolactic Bacteria 
One of the tools for controlling malolactic 
fermentation could be the employment of the 
natural metabolic interactions between the 
yeast strain, used for the alcoholic fermenta­
tion, and the subsequent malolactic bacteria. 
The competition for nutrients, the formation 
and binding of sulfur dioxide by the yeast, the 
formation of inhibitory medium-chain fatty 
acids by the yeast, the strain variation in re­
lease of intracellular materials from the yeast 
during sur lies aging are all important factors. 
With respect to the last, cell-wall polysaccha­
rides and proteins liberated by wine yeast, 
probably strain-related, have been shown to 
have a stimulatory effect on malolactic bacte­
ria (Guilloux-Benatier et al. 1993). However, 
Dick et al. (1992) isolated proteins from Sac­
charomyces cerevisiae, which inhibited malolactic 
bacteria. 
The formation of the high concentrations 
of ethanol by the yeast would be expected to 
have an important influence on the secondary 
fermentation, depending on the strain of bac­
teria involved. While this effect has also been 
studied (Fornachon 1968), no definite or con­
sistent correlation between yeast strain used 
for the alcoholic fermentation and its influ­
ence on various malolactic strains, or vice 
versa, has as yet been established. One study 
between Montrachet yeast strain and PSU-1 
strain of Leuconostoc oenos, however, reveals 
some unexpected interactions (King and Beel­
man 1986). On the one hand, the yeast inhib­
ited the early bacterial growth, but not be­
cause of ethanol formation. In fact, ethanol at 
low concentrations stimulated the growth of the bacteria. This effect has been confirmed 
(see below). On the other hand, the bacteria 
stimulated the death phase of the yeast. This 
was not the result of ornithine production by 
the bacteria, which had been indicated in ear­
lier literature (Kuensch et al. 1974). The high 
concentration of sugars in grape juice was 
inhibitory to the growth of both the yeast 
(Chapter 4) and the bacteria; when the 
medium was diluted 1:1, the yeast and the 
bacteria reached their stationary phases simul­
taneously. The antagonism between yeast and 
malolactic fermentation has also been shown 
by Rynders (1993), where the effect on the 
yeast was generally alleviated by additions of 
riboflavin. 
The interrelationships between the yeast 
and bacteria are extremely complex and they 
are further complicated by the relationships 
between the various environmental factors, 
having inhibitory and synergist effects. We have 
already mentioned the interplay between acid­
ity (low pH) and ethanol concentration and 
bacterial growth. Another relationship be­
tween the effects of ethanol concentration and 
temperature has also been shown (Asmundson 
and Kelly 1990). The latter workers also found 
the slight stimulation of growth rate and 
biomass yield of malolactic bacteria at 2 to 4% 
ethanol, as compared to no ethanol or to 
higher concentrations. 
2. Stimulation 
The malolactic fermentation is stimulated ei­
ther by making the conditions more favorable 
to the bacteria so as to speed up their growth 
rate or by supplying a high starting population 
of bacteria, or both. 
a. Stimulation of Bacterial Growth 
The conditions for stimulation of the growth 
rate are simply stated and generally not too 
difficult to implement (Kunkee 1967a, 1974, 
1984, 1991). 
I. Sulfur Dioxide. Nominal additions of 
sulfur dioxide inhibit bacterial growth and 
should be used as little as possible, or not at all, where the malolactic fermentation is de­
sired. Additions of sulfur dioxide to the must 
can delay or prevent the onset of bacterial 
growth, even when the latter is expected or 
desired after the end of the alcoholic fermen­
tation (Kunkee 1967a) when all of the sulfur 
dioxide is bound. Sulfur dioxide is largely 
bound as its addition product with acetalde­
hyde, and this addition product has been 
shown, itself, to be toxic to the bacteria-pre­
sumably by catabolism of the carbon moiety by 
the bacteria, thus freeing the toxic sulfur diox­
ide (Fornachon 1957). 
II. Temperature. If the malolactic fer­
mentation is to be encouraged, the tempera­
ture of the wine during storage is a major 
consideration; it ought to be maintained above 
18°C-but not much higher because of poten­
tial damage to the wine. In some climates, this 
may mean an artificial increase in the ambient 
temperature of at least some isolated storage 
area, if not of the whole cellar. 
III. Acidity. Acidity can be modified to 
stimulate the growth rate. Where pH needs to 
be raised, there should be, of course, no acid 
addition before malolactic conversion. Where 
the pH is so low as to prevent the onset of 
bacterial growth, for example in some parts of 
New York state, wine makers have used chemi­
cal deacidifications, such as additions of cal­
cium carbonate, to raise the pH enough to 
allow bacterial growth. 
W. Ethanol. Stimulation of the bacterial 
growth by overcoming the inhibitory presence 
of ethanol is not easily accomplished-but the 
situation often takes care of itself. While some 
lactic acid bacteria can thrive at very high 
(> 20%) concentrations of ethanol, the malo­
lactic bacteria are generally sensitive to the 
ethanol concentrations of table wine, and the 
inhibition becomes more and more evident as 
the ethanol reaches about 14% (vol/vol) 
(Kunkee 1967a). However, since wines of high 
ethanol concentration are generally those of 
higher pH-except where sugar amelioration 
is practiced-the inhibitory effect of ethanol Malolactic Fermentation 255 
is compensated for by the higher pH. As we 
have said, malolactic bacterial strains touted to 
have special resistance to the inhibitory effects 
of wines with low pH, very often, in fact, are 
merely benefiting from the low concentration 
of ethanol that is usually associated with these 
Wines. 
V. Macronutrients. In grape juice or labo­
ratory media, the wine malolactic bacteria eas­
ily utilize glucose and fructose. In the absence 
of these sugars, as at the end of the alcoholic 
fermentation, it is not clear what the bacteria 
use as sources of energy. Malic acid has a 
dramatic stimulatory effect on the growth of 
these bacteria (Section I), but the bacteria 
cannot use it as a sole energy source. All of the 
malolactic bacteria can metabolize ribose, and 
some can metabolize other pentoses (Melamed 
1962). These sugars are in low concentrations 
in wine, but sometimes might be high enough 
to provide sufficient energy for cell biomass to 
reach the limited amount typically found in 
wine. However, there may be a problem in 
induction of the perm eases and enzymes for 
catabolism of these substrates, which are at 
such low concentrations (Rogosa and Sharpe 
1959). Apparently some amino acids can be 
utilized as energy sources (Weiller and Radler 
1976), although they too are at low concentra­
tions at the very end of the alcoholic fermen­
tation. 
VI. Micronutrients. The micronutrient re­
quirements for the lactic acid bacteria are 
extensive (Henick-Kling 1988), nutritionally 
fastidious being a common descriptor for 
them. They all require some amino acids and 
several vitamins. Indeed, growth of some of 
these bacteria has been used for bioassays of 
factors especially difficult to assay by other 
means. Lists of nutritional requirements for 
selected strains of malolactic bacteria can be 
found in the older literature (Luthi and Vetsch 
1960; Peynaud et al. 1965; Du Plessis 1963; 
Radler 1966; Kunkee 1967a; Weiller and 
Radler 1972, 1976), and also more recently 
(Tracey and Britz 1989b). Generally, strains of 256 Malolactic Fermentation 
Leuconostoc oenos are the most fastidious of all 
(Section H.2). 
The use of information concerning mi­
cronutrient requirements as a means to con­
trol malolactic fermentation is complicated by 
several factors. The amino acid may be being 
used as an energy source, rather than a re­
quired nutrient. Furthermore, the availability 
of the amino acids is not necessarily growth 
stimulating. In order to involve micronutrients 
for control of malolactic fermentation, not 
only would it be necessary to know the mi­
cronutrient complement of the particular bac­
terial strain to be used, but also the extract 
micronutrient complement of the wine. Both 
of these requirements are difficult, if not im­
possible, to ascertain during practical wine­
making operations. Moreover, the addition of 
specific nutrients usually requires government 
permission, not likely to be as quickly pro­
cured as needed. 
One more complicating fact is that lactic 
acid bacteria have been shown to produce 
extracellular proteases, and the concentration 
of free amino acids has been observed to in­
crease during growth of these bacteria 
(Henick-Kling 1988). Some bacteria of this 
group are stimulated by peptides more than 
by the constituent amino acids. 
VII. Oxygen. The lactic acid bacteria are 
microaerophilic, indicating a love for small 
amounts of oxygen. Oxygen can be considered 
a nutrient. In the heterolactic bacteria (Sec­
tion H), the presence of molecular oxygen 
ought to stimulate their growth by providing a 
direct means of reoxidation of NADPH. The 
latter is a required catalyst during the first 
steps in the heterolactic fermentation of hex­
oses-that is, in their oxidative decarboxyl­
ation. However, there is essentially no evi­
dence to indicate that aerobic conditions are 
more favorable than anaerobic conditions with 
regard to malolactic bacterial growth under 
practical winemaking conditions (Kunkee 
1991), and in some cases, the opposite has 
been indicated (Kelly et al. 1989). It is gener­
ally more useful for the winemaker to think of these bacteria as anaerobic, remembering the 
requirement is by no means as stringent as for 
strict anaerobes. 
b. Increased Size of Bacterial Inocula 
In the traditional management of malolactic 
fermentation, the inoculating bacteria are pre­
sent as indigenous residents of the cellar, es­
pecially in used cooperage. It was pointed out 
in this section that the use of bacterial starter 
cultures to stimulate the fermentation is be­
coming more and more popular. Often the 
desired strains are purchased as liquid cultures 
or as frozen or freeze-dried cultures. About a 
dozen cultures are commercially available, 
most of them being strains of Leuconostoc oenos 
(Pompilio 1993), but strains of pediococui and 
lactobacilli are also distributed. The frozen or 
dried cultures ought to be rehydrated in ster­
ile water or medium (Fugelsang and Zoecklein 
1993) before being expanded. Ideally, the lat­
ter is done aseptically in a modified grape 
juice medium (Appendix F) to provide for an 
inoculum of 108 colony-forming units (cfu) 
per mL. One strain of lactobacillus (L. plan­
tarum) is distributed commercially for use 
without being expanded. In this case, a large 
inoculum is added to the grape juice, where 
the malolactic deacidification is made by the 
nongrowing bacteria (in this case inhibited by 
the low pH of the grape juice) before the wine 
yeast inoculation is made. 
Because of the relatively slow growth and 
low biomass formation of the malolactic bacte­
ria, malolactic starter cultures are much more 
difficult to prepare, as compared to yeast 
starter cultures. For the preparation of the 
latter, asepsis is generally not necessary since 
the wine yeast, at any reasonable inoculation 
level, will outgrow any other organisms resi­
dent in the grape juice, or other medium, 
used for the starter. For bacteria expansion, 
autoclaved media can be used until the vol­
umes become too unwieldy. After that, one 
relies on high inoculation concentrations. This 
means that the initial inoculations, whether at 
time of harvest, in the middle, or at the end of 
the alcoholic fermentation, must generally be small. Furthermore, there is often a dramatic 
loss of viability of these bacteria when they are 
transferred from one medium to another, es­
pecially when the latter is a less favorable one. 
Two routines have been devised to help 
overcome the difficulties of malolactic starter 
preparation (Beelman and Kunkee 1987). To 
allow better bacterial growth, the grape juice 
to be used as starter is initially soaked on the 
grape skins overnight and then the pressed 
juice receives the following commercially ac­
ceptable manipulations: dilution 1:1 with wa­
ter, adjustment of pH to pH 4.5 with calcium 
carbonate, and then addition of 0.1 % yeast 
nutrient. To this is added a 1 % starter of 
malolactic bacteria and a 0.1 % inoculum of 
wine yeast. The latter is added to allow an 
alcoholic fermentation to occur following the 
full growth of the bacteria. The resulting 
ethanol helps protect the starter from un­
wanted invasive microorganisms. In about two 
weeks' time this starter can be used, at a 
concentration of 1 %, for inoculation of freshly 
harvested musts. 
However, once malolactic fermentation has 
commenced, or once the malolactic conver­
sion is evident in this initial material, a method 
of rapid induction of malolactic fermentation 
becomes available. The wine which has just 
undergone malolactic conversion can now can 
be employed as a starter culture. While the 
final concentration of bacteria in this new 
starter material (wine) may be low, reaching a 
concentration of only 107 cfu/mL, as com­
pared to 109 cfu/mL in laboratory cultures, 
the winemaker now has a large volume of it 
available and thus can use it at a high inocula­
tion rate, say, 50%. Since a 50% inoculation 
rate in this case would give an initial bacterial 
concentration of about 5 x 106, and since 
there is essentially no loss of viability in trans­
ferring between such similar media, the conse­
quent malolactic conversion rate is rapid, and 
may occur in a few days and furnish even 
more starter material. Although this method is 
somewhat labor-intensive, it provides a power­
ful tool for obtaining rapid malolactic fermen-Malolactic Fermentation 257 
tations under practical winemaking condi­
tions. 
3. Inhibition 
Contrariwise, the malolactic fermentation is 
inhibited either by making the conditions less 
favorable to the bacteria so as to slow down 
their growth, or by assuring that there is a low 
initial concentration of bacteria, or both. Of 
course, for absolute prevention, viable malo­
lactic bacteria must be completely eliminated. 
a. Repression of Bacterial Growth 
The conditions for inhibition are as simply 
stated as those for stimulation and are also 
generally not too difficult to implement 
(Kunkee 1974, 1984, 1991). 
I. Sulfur Dioxide. Sulfur dioxide, of 
course, inhibits bacterial growth; however, its 
presence at the concentrations acceptable in 
good winemaking operations is not sufficient 
in itself to assure complete absence of bacte­
rial activity. To control the malolactic fermen­
tation, the oft-recommended concentration of 
0.8 mg/L of molecular sulfur dioxide, which 
of course takes into account the pH of the 
wine, is advised; however, unless both the tem­
perature and the concentration of bacteria are 
kept low, this concentration of sulfur dioxide 
ought to be considered as a delaying opera­
tion (Kunkee 1967a). 
II. Temperature. To inhibit bacterial 
growth, the stored wine should be kept at 
normal cellar temperatures, at least below 
18°C. Often temperatures as low as 13°C are 
used; the latter corresponding to temperatures 
often found in premium wine region cellars. 
Nevertheless, we have observed the occur­
rence of the malolactic fermentation even in 
white wines in some of the coldest wine grow­
ing regions, for example, in Chablis and in 
Brataslavia, where the inhibitory cold condi­
tions were balanced by stimulation from in­
creased nutrients coming from storage of the 
wine on the yeast lees. 258 Malolactic Fermentation 
Ill. Ethanol. We have mentioned the nat­
ural reciprocal conditions of high concentra­
tions of ethanol and of high pH. Here, again, 
the inhibitory effect of high concentrations of 
ethanol cannot be counted on to prevent bac­
terial growth, since these wines do not usually 
have a pH low enough to be restrictive. 
W. Acidity. Since the bacterial growth is 
inhibited by low pH, acid additions, preferably 
tartaric acid, can be used to control the fer­
mentations. As with low temperature, low pH 
is not in itself assurance of complete inhibition 
of bacterial growth. The base wines for 
sparkling wine production in the Champagne 
region are commonly pH 3.0, or less, and 
these wines generally can be and are handled 
in such a way as to bring about the malolactic 
fermen tation. 
A rule of thumb, at least under California 
winemaking conditions, has been given 
(Kunkee 1967a): when wine has a pH less than 
3.3, stimulatory operations (see above) need to 
be employed in order to obtain the fermenta­
tion; if the pH is greater than 3.3, it will be 
difficult to prevent malolactic fermentation 
with the use of regular cellar operations (see 
above). In order to discourage the fermenta­
tion where it is not wanted, winemakers have 
been advised to remove the wine from the 
yeast lees and to make fining and filtration 
operations as early as possible, to store the 
wine at low temperature in noninfected (stain­
less steel) cooperage, and to maintain judi­
cious concentrations of sulfur dioxide (Kunkee 
1967a, 1991). However, absolute inhibition of 
malolactic fermentation is assured only by 
complete removal or destruction of the 
causative bacteria. 
b. Elimination of Viable Malolactic 
Bacteria 
The need to block malolactic fermentation is 
usually most important in bottled white wines 
which are considered at risk, but which have 
not as yet undergone fermentation. For exam­
ple, this situation might arise from a blend of 
wines having and not having already under-gone malolactic fermentation. With varietally 
distinct white wines, it is especially important 
to choose the method of elimination of bacte­
ria which has minimal or no effect on sensory 
properties. With red wines, bottling is often 
long enough delayed that the wines have al­
ready been bacteriologically stabilized by mal­
olactic fermentation; or if not by this time, it is 
reasonable to suppose that they do not sup­
port the growth of bacteria. With young pink 
and red wines, the methods and precautions 
are the same as with white ones. 
Several methods are used for absolute inhi­
bition of malolactic fermentation: sterile fil­
tration, treatment with chemical inhibitors, 
and heating of the wine. The action of bacte­
riophage can have a dramatic inhibitory effect 
on malolactic bacteria and their fermenta­
tions; however, the use of bacteriophage is not 
an established winemaking control operation. 
Their activities, and associated problems, are 
discussed below. 
I. Sterile bottling. Sterile filtration, fol­
lowed by sterile bottling, is the method of 
choice for prevention of bacterial activity in 
bottled wine. When properly performed this 
operation assures complete removal of the mi­
crobes; and when it is properly done, it con­
fers no perceptible sensory effect. The proce­
dure is the same as that used for removal of 
yeast to stabilize semidry wine (Chapters 5 and 
9), except the nominal porosity of the filter 
must be smaller, no larger than 0.45 J1-m. As 
with the yeast removal, the essential removal 
of microbes may be done with depth filters, 
but the final filtration ought to be made with a 
membrane filter, which allows integrity testing 
(bubble point) (Chapter 11). Again, the steril­
ization of the filter and housing, and all of the 
equipment downstream, including various 
parts of the filling equipment, can be safely 
and reliably achieved only by use of heat (hot 
water or steam). Quality control of the opera­
tion is the same as that used for yeast removal: 
removal of bottled wines from the production 
line, filtration of contents though a sterile 
membrane, incubation of the membrane on a nutrient medium, followed by visual inspec­
tion for colony development. These bacteria 
are both nutritionally fastidious and slow 
growers; for some the optimal temperature for 
growth in not much above room temperature. 
Thus, it is important for these bacteria to use a 
highly enriched medium, such as modified 
Rogosa (Appendix F), and to incubate the 
plates for at least 10 days and at a temperature 
of about 25°C. 
II. Heat. Heating methods for preven­
tion of yeast activity in bottled wine can also 
be used for elimination of malolactic bacteria. 
Flash pasteurization and high-temperature 
short-time heating procedures will effectively 
destroy the bacteria, with minimal effect on 
flavor, but the entire system downstream (lines, 
filling equipment, bottles, bottle closures) must 
also be rendered and maintained sterile. Hot 
bottling, where the wine is heated and allowed 
to cool after it has been bottled, has generally 
been considered unacceptable because of the. 
accompanying deterioration of the wine fla­
vor. However, some inventive research has 
shown that when this is done in small-sized 
bottles (375 mL volume) in a tunnel pasteur­
izer, there is no sensory deterioration of the 
product (Malletroit et al. 1991). This method 
would seem to be an attractive one for stabi­
lization of wine in small-sized containers, where 
sterile filling is often troublesome, especially at 
high speed. 
III. Chemical Inhibitors. There is increas­
ing pressure to limit the use of sulfur dioxide 
in winemaking, including its use to control 
malolactic fermentation. This has renewed in­
terest in the use of other chemical inhibitors. 
Fumaric acid has been shown to be toxic to 
lactic acid bacteria at low pH (Cofran and 
Meyer 1970; Pilone 1975). It has been success­
fully used to inhibit malolactic fermentation 
under good winemaking conditions; that is, 
when the pH is less than 4, and when the 
concentration of bacteria is relatively 
low-such as would be obtained after a rough 
filtration. A disadvantage of this procedure is 
the relative insolubility of fumaric acid, espe-Malolactic Fermentation 259 
cially in wine; but since only a low final con­
centration (0.5 giL) is needed, wine makers 
have found that occasional stirring of the wine 
for a day or two after addition allows the 
material to become fully dissolved. This draw­
back makes the treatment impractical for use 
for very large-scale volumes of wine. Wine 
producers should be cautioned that even 
though fumaric acid is a widely used acidulat­
ing agent for the food and beverage industry 
and is a common component of human cell 
metabolism, its use in wine is restricted in 
many countries outside of the United States. 
Dimethyl dicarbonate (Velcorin®) is also 
approved for use in the United States. This 
chemical has been used mainly for control of 
yeast in wine (Chapter 7), but it has also been 
found to be an inhibitor of malolactic bacteria 
in the presence of S02 in wine, providing 
again, as with fumaric acid, that the pH is 
reasonably low (Ough et al. 1988). The use of 
this product in wine in Europe is awaiting 
approval. 
Not yet reduced to practice in wine produc­
tion is the use of nisins, small polypeptides 
produced by certain lactic acid bacteria in­
hibitory to other bacteria. Recent research has 
demonstrated the effectiveness of these, and 
also the possibilities of the development of 
resistance to them by the bacteria (Radler 
1990a, 1990b; Daeschel et al. 1991). 
Another natural product showing promise 
for inhibition of malolactic bacteria in wine is 
the enzyme lysozyme. Some problems with in­
creased turbidity in white wines and color in­
stability in red wines need to be overcome 
(Amati et al. 1993). 
c. Bacteriophage 
It is unlikely that winemakers would ever wish 
to employ the use of bacteriophages-bacterial 
viruses-to control (inhibit) malolactic fer­
mentation; but it is in their best interest, and 
in the best interest of the producers of malo­
lactic bacterial starter cultures, to understand 
how potentially dangerous these agents could 
be. Whereas bacteria grow at an exponential 
rate-a parent cell producing two progeny 260 Malolactic Fermentation 
cells during each cell cycle, each parent bacte­
riophage commonly produces 100 to 200 
progeny phages. As with other viruses, the 
phages cannot reproduce on their own, but 
after invasion into the host bacteria, they take 
over some of the reproductive apparatus of 
the cells to make copies of themselves. After a 
relatively short time, in about 20 minutes un­
der defined conditions with some bacteria, the 
integrity of the host's cell wall is destroyed and 
lysis ensues. The newly formed phages are 
released to infect other host cells in the 
medium. One or two cycles of this can com­
pletely blight the culture. The use of bacterio­
phages in transduction or plasmid interac­
tions, or in other genetic manipulations of the 
lactic acid bacteria is only beginning to be 
realized (Klaenhammer 1987). However, the 
commercial significance of the phages has long 
been known in the disastrous interruptions of 
acetone-butanol fermentations by infection of 
Clostridium acetolYutylicum, and closer to our 
subject, in the disruptions of cheese manufac­
tures by infections of Lactococcus spp. The 
discoveries of bacteriophage invasion of the 
malolactic bacteria in winemaking have not 
been so dramatic. However, the phage prob­
lem can be potentially as important for wine­
makers as more use is made of single-strain 
cultures for malolactic fermentation. The wine 
bacteriophages were first reported in Switzer­
land almost two decades ago (Sozzi et al. 1976), 
and 10 years later in Australian wines (Davis et 
al. 1985a; Henick-Kling 1986), with pho­
tographs of the phages, and of the 
plaques-the holes of lysed cells in a lawn 
background of the susceptible bacteria on nu­
trient agar plates. Initially, there seemed to be 
no compelling reason to think that phage in­
fections would be important in commercial 
wine production, or could account for stuck 
malolactic fermentations; however, later re­
search clearly showed the potential dangers of 
this infection (Henick-Kling et al. 1986). As yet 
there have been no known incidents involving 
bacteriophages in the California wine industry 
(Kunkee 1991), nor are we aware of any prob­
lems with them in the commercial production of malolactic bacterial starters. However, some 
assessments of the situation suggest that the 
potentialities of the problem are severe; many 
strains of Leuconostoc oenos are lysogenic and 
there can be a contamination on an industrial 
scale (Cavin et al. 1991). The range of sensitiv­
ities of the hosts for the phages seems to be 
narrow; thus, the protective measures would 
seem to be the same as those used in the dairy 
industry, to have other strains of starter cul­
tures in reserve. 
F. DETECTION OF MALOLACTIC 
CONVERSION 
Changes in titratable acidity and pH charac­
terize the malolactic conversion; however, 
these changes are variable in degree and may 
be masked by or arise from other reactions in 
wine. The measure of increase in lactic acid is 
also not sufficient evidence, since this acid 
might also be formed by yeast or by bacteria 
from other carbohydrate sources. Thus, the 
measurement of disappearance of malic acid is 
the accepted means for determining whether 
the malolactic conversion has occurred. Pro­
cedures for malic acid measurement are given 
below. 
Visual inspection can provide some indica­
tions of malolactic activity: An increase in tur­
bidity can be seen in relatively clear and light­
colored wines coming from the increased con­
centration of bacteria; increased effervescence 
may be evident from the formation of carbon 
dioxide; and a loss in color may be seen from 
the change in pH and available hydrogens, the 
latter from NADH formed during the fermen­
tation. The first two visual changes should not 
be considered definitive: they are either too 
subjective or too difficult to quantify because 
of their lack of specificity; however, the loss in 
color in red wine can often be measured spec­
trophotometrically. Some loss in color, due to 
the increased pH, is reversible and returns 
with adjustment of the wine to its original 
acidity. Another loss of color may come from 
reduction of anthocyanin pigments by net production of NADH by the bacteria, but this 
is not common (Section A.3). 
1. Malic Acid Analyses 
Among methods available, practically speak­
ing, paper chromatography, enzymatic analy­
ses, and liquid chromatography are used for 
determination of malic acid. The last method 
requires rather expensive equipment and is 
usually found only in consulting wine labora­
tories or very large wineries; however, the 
methodology for the first two procedures is 
readily available in most wineries. 
a. Enzymatic Procedures 
The enzymatic procedures utilize the reduc­
tion of NAD+ (which can then be measured 
spectrophotometrically at 340 m/,t) by LC-)­
malic acid in the presence of the malic dehy­
drogenase, at pH 9.5. The equilibrium is in 
favor of the substrates. One procedure speeds 
up the reaction by removing the oxaloacetic 
acid produced by condensing it with hydrazine 
(Poux and Caillet 1969). Another procedure 
employs addition of L-glutamate and the re­
moval of it, and oxaloacetic acid coming from 
L-malic, by a second enzyme, glutamate­
oxaloacetate transaminase (McCloskey 1980). 
The enzymatic analysis materials are available 
in convenient kit forms from biochemical sup­
ply houses. 
b. Paper Chromatography 
The paper chromatographic procedure is de­
scribed in detail here (Kunkee 1968, 1974). 
Chromatographic-grade filter paper rectangles 
of 20 cm X 30 cm (commercially available 
precut) are spotted with the must or wine for 
analysis along one of the longer edges, about 
2.5 cm from the edge and about 2.5 cm be­
tween spots. Each spotting is made four times, 
to a diameter of about 1 cm (and the spot 
allowed to dry in between spottings) from 1.2-
X 75 mm-sized micropipettes, giving a total 
volume of approximately 10 fLL (the smaller 
the spots, the greater the resolution). The 
paper is then formed into a cylinder with the Malolactic Fermentation 261 
use of three staples along the short ends, care 
being taken not to contact or overlap the 
edges. Screw-lid commodity jars of approxi­
mately 4 L (of some 14 cm in diameter and 25 
cm in height) serve well as chromatography 
jars. The solvent is prepared in a fume hood, 
or a well-ventilated, fire-free area, by shaking 
together in a separatory funnel 100 mL H20, 
100 mL n-butanol, 10.7 mL concentrated 
formic acid, and 15 mL of a 10-g/L solution of 
bromocresol green (this dye is available in a 
water-soluble form). Mter several minutes the 
lower (aqueous) phase is drawn off and dis­
carded. Seventy mL of the upper layer are 
placed in the jar, the chromatogram is in­
serted (the spotted edge down), the jar lid 
closed, and the jar stored at room tempera­
ture in a draft-free space. For best results the 
running time is about six hours; this may be 
safely extended to overnight, even if the sol­
vent reaches the upper edge; or the chro­
matogram can be removed after about three 
hours (and a paper cylinder of only 10 cm 
height used). Mter the yellow chromatogram 
is removed, it should be stored in a well-venti­
lated area until dry and until the formic acid 
has volatilized, leaving a blue-green back­
ground with yellow spots of acids having the 
following approximate Rf (the ratio of spot 
movement to solvent front distance) values: 
tartaric acid 0.28, citric acid 0.45, malic acid 
0.51, lactic and succinic acids 0.78, and fu­
maric acid 0.91. The Rf of the dye front is 
between 0.8 and 0.9. Standard solutions (2 
giL) of malic and lactic acids should also be 
run as controls. The solvent may be used re­
peatedly if care is taken to remove any aque­
ous layer which may have separated after each 
run. 
For faster results, thin layer chromatogra­
phy can be used, but we are not confident that 
the lower levels of malic acid (0.6 giL) some­
times found in California wine before malolac­
tic fermentation (Ingraham and Cooke 1960) 
are easily detected by this means. Where re­
sults are needed in less than three hours, the 
enzymatic procedures given above should be 
employed. 262 Malolactic Fermentation 
G. POSTMALOLACTIC FERMENTATION 
OPERATIONS 
Mter the malolactic fermentation is finished, 
several winery operations are advised for good 
storage of the wine. As mentioned above, the 
fermentation is not complete until some few 
days after the malolactic conversion is finished 
-that is, not until several days after the malic 
acid has disappeared-since the bacteria usu­
ally need an additional growth cycle or two 
before they enter their resting phase. Some­
times the loss of malic acid is not complete, or 
at least the last traces are very slow to disap­
pear. Practically, one can say that the malolac­
tic conversion is finished when the malic acid 
concentration decreases to less than 0.2 giL, 
or when the acid spot on the chromatogram is 
hardly visible. 
For most individual wines, the malolactic 
fermentation readily goes to completion. Cli­
mate conditions may lower the storage tem­
peratures so as to delay the finishing of the 
fermentation until warmer weather arrives. It 
is more difficult to explain the situation where 
a wine is said to have had a limited malolactic 
fermentation. This may reflect a micronutri­
ent or energy source deficiency, either of 
which may be extremely difficult to determine. 
Bacteriophage infection is an unlikely cause, 
but cannot be completely ignored. Mter some 
months, the wine probably can be considered 
bacteriologically stable. The most critical thing 
to remember is that bacteriological stability is 
likely to be lost if this wine is then blended 
with any other. In fact, one worries when a 
wine with partial malolactic fermentation is a 
blend of one with and one without and a 
problem waiting to happen. 
The postfermentation treatments usually 
mimic those specified for discouragement of 
the fermentation: transfer of the wine off of 
any lees and a rough filtration; adjustments of 
temperature and pH and addition of sulfur 
dioxide. Fining operations could also be em­
ployed at this time. The temperature should 
be adjusted to that used for cellar storage 
(l3°C to 15°C). Acid adjustment can now be made (Section A.4) The sulfur dioxide addi­
tions should follow normal cellar guidelines, 
that is, 0.8 mg molecular-S0 2 per liter. 
Sometimes a ventilation of the wine is help­
ful. This treatment serves to remove some 
unwanted volatile odors, such as traces of hy­
drogen sulfide, which can arise chemically 
during the reducing conditions of the fermen­
tation' regardless of bacterial strain. This treat­
ment is often accomplished merely by splash­
ing the wine during a racking operation against 
the side of the air-filled container. The ventila­
tion by this means includes, of course, a lim­
ited aeration, which may be beneficial for 
other reasons. 
H. IDENTIFICATION AND 
CULTIVATION OF MALOLACTIC 
BAOERIA 
1. Description of Malolactic Bacteria 
The malolactic bacteria are those which have 
the capability of direct decarboxylation of 
malic acid to lactic acid-by the enzyme 
malate carboxy lyase. This enzymatic activity is 
unique in the biological world, being found 
only in several genera of lactic acid bacteria. 
The malolactic bacteria as a group are not a 
separate taxon-the strains belonging to this 
grouping cut across several genera of lactic 
acid bacteria. Here we are mainly interested in 
those malolactic bacteria that have high toler­
ance to acidity and ethanol, that is, those 
which will grow in wine, and thus are limited 
to certain species of three genera: Lactobacil­
lus, Pediococcus, and Leuconostoc. However, mal­
olactic bacteria are involved in other kinds of 
fermentations including pickle, sauerkraut, 
and soy sauce manufactures and in silage pro­
duction. It has generally been expected that 
most lactic acid bacterial isolates from wine 
would have malolactic conversion capabilities, 
but that is not always the case (see below). 
Some of the older literature incorrectly re­
ports the isolations of strains of micrococci and streptococci from wine. However, many 
strains of Lactococcus lactis, the modern classi­
fication of several species of Streptococcus, do 
have malolactic capability. These bacteria, im­
portant in cheese manufacture, cannot grow 
in wine; but because they are relatively easy to 
cultivate they are being used by some workers 
as good substrate microorganisms for malolac­
tic research. Since this enzymatic activity has 
no known or obvious value to bacteria growing 
in the absence of malic acid, either it would 
seem that this is a primitive activity, but was 
not lost when the lactococci adapted to animal 
substrates from plant substrates, or that we 
do not understand the definitive role of the 
enzyme. 
Some recently described pediococci iso­
lated from wine (Edwards and Jensen 1992) do 
not have the malolactic capability. It is not 
clear how important spoilage of wine by non­
malolactic pediococci would be, either in 
bringing about microbiological stability or in 
production of unacceptable flavors and odors. 
2. Cultivation of Wine-Related 
Lactic Acid Bacteria 
Lactic acid bacteria, in culture, are generally 
grown in complex media, often containing 
peptone, tryptone, or yeast extract, at pH 5 to 
6, and usually are stored in such media with 
agar, as stab cultures. The wine-related lactic 
acid bacteria will grow at much lower pH 
values, approaching 3.0; and low-pH media 
are sometimes used by wine microbiologists. 
The cultivation of the wine leuconostocs is 
often especially difficult. While many of these 
strains will show better growth at the low pHs 
just mentioned than members of the other 
genera, they usually need special nutritional 
supplementation. A potent growth factor for 
these organisms has been isolated from tomato 
juice: 4'.()..( {3-D-glucopyranosyO-D-pantothenic 
acid (Figure 6-3) (Amachi et al. 1971; Amachi 
1975; Yoshizumi 1975). This tomato juice fac­
tor seems also to be found in apple and grape 
juices, which are used as supplements in me­
dia for these organisms. A source of fatty acids Malolactic Fermentation 263 
~C~~-C~-b~CONHCH;!CH~OOH 
I I 
OH H~ H 
HO 
OH 
4' - 0 - (~-D-glucopyranosyl)-D( R)-pantothenic acid 
Fig. 6-3. Tomato juice factor. 
is also helpful, the commercial mixture Tween 
80 being commonly used. 
For isolation of lactic acid bacteria from 
wine, or similar materials, a small volume (0.1 
mL) is spread on solid medium of the type 
mentioned above, such as apple Rogosa 
medium (Appendix F). Because the starting 
materials often also contain yeast, which will 
overgrow the slow-growing lactic acid bacteria, 
a yeast inhibitor, such as cycloheximide, is 
employed. Isolation of lactic acid bacteria from 
wine is discussed further in Chapter 9. 
3. Identification of Wine-Related 
Lactic Acid Bacteria 
The criteria given here for identification of 
lactic acid bacteria are implicitly for the wine­
related lactic acid bacteria; that is, those bacte­
ria found in or isolated from grape juice, wine 
or its distillates, or winery equipment. The 
categorizations for genus and species are in 
agreement with those found in Bergey's Man­
ual of Systematic Bacteriology (Sneath 1986), and 
Ninth Edition of Bergey's Manual of Determina­
tive Bacteriology (Holt et al. 1993). 
Preliminary tests for classification of the 
bacteria as lactic acid bacteria are prerequi­
site. The first assignment for classification as 
lactic acid bacteria is a negative catalase test 
(Appendix G), which conveniently categorizes 
them as anaerobes. Many bacteriologists con­
sider anaerobes to be inhibited, prevented 
from growth or killed, by oxygen. In fact, the 
lactic acid bacteria are microaerophilic-liter­
ally meaning they grow best in the presence of 
low amounts of oxygen-behaving nominally 
as facultative aerobes/anaerobes. They grow 264 Malolactic Fermentation 
well as surface colonies in the presence of air 
and equally well as submerged stab cultures. 
(In stab cultures, the growth often appears to 
be somewhat heavier a few mm below the 
surface, as compared to that at the surface or 
further below, which probably has given them 
the microaerophilic description.) For defini­
tive classification, the formation of lactic acid 
is tested after good growth of the organism on 
a nutrient medium containing a fermentable 
sugar but, of course, no malic acid. As men­
tioned above, it is often difficult to grow some 
of these organisms without supplements of ap­
ple or grape juices. However, these juices also 
contain malic acid. Thus, to determine the 
formation of lactic acid from sugar, supple­
mentation with tomato juice, which has only a 
negligible concentration of malic acid, is indi­
cated. An accepted procedure for assaying for 
lactic acid is paper chromatography (Section 
FIb), since the precise amount or indication 
of which optical isomer is formed is not re­
quired at this stage in the identification. The 
malolactic attribute is not a part of the taxo­
nomic characterization; nevertheless, the pres­
ence of this trait is important for us. This can 
be determined by growth of the organism on a 
medium with malic acid, followed by paper 
chromatography to determine if the malic acid 
had been catabolized. 
a. Genus Identification of the 
Wine-Related Lactic Acid Bacteria 
Generic assessment of lactic acid bacteria is 
relatively easy. Two characteristics are used for 
this: cellular morphology and the determina­
tion of whether they are hetero- or homolactic 
fermenters. Bacteria found in wine, or grape 
juice, fitting the above tests as lactic acid bac­
teria and which are microscopically obvious 
rods, can directly be classified as lactobacilli 
(Figure 6-4). Those that are cocci, either per­
fect or elongated spheres, are then classified 
either as pediococci or leuconostocs (Figure 
6-4). Fermentation tests are required to segre­
gate further these latter genera, the pedio­
cocci being homolactic and the leuconostocs 
being heterolactic. I. Homolactic versus heterolactic fermenta­
tion. The homolactic fermenters (Wood 
1961), utilize the familiar Embden-Myerhof 
glycolytic pathway offermentation (Figure 6-5), 
producing primarily a single product, lactic 
acid, from sugar. The heterolactic fermenters 
(Wood 1961), using the phosphoketolase path­
way (Figure 6-5), give a mixture of products, 
roughly one-sixth as carbon dioxide, one-third 
as C2-units such as ethanol, acetic acid, or 
acetaldehyde, and the remainder as lactic acid. 
The lactic acid produced may include either 
or both optical isomers. In practice, the dis­
tinction between hetero- and homolactic fer­
mentation is not as clear-cut as indicated; 
strains producing 80% lactic acid can be ho­
mofermenters, and the heterofermenters may 
produce somewhat greater or less than 50% 
lactic acid. See Section 1-2 on the biochemistry 
of the malolactic fermentation for further dis­
cussion of the fermentative pathways. 
II. Coccal morphology. The precise spher­
ical cell morphology of the pediococci make 
them easily identifiable as such. Furthermore 
they usually appear as two cells together (di­
plococci), helping to confirm the classification 
(Figure 6-6). However, with the leuconostocs, 
the assignment by cellular morphology can be 
more difficult. The wine leuconostocs, espe­
cially when growing on vegetable material, ap­
pear as elongated cocci rather than precisely 
spherical (Figure 6-7). We have empirically 
suggested that if the length-to-width ratio is 
> 2, the organisms should be designated as 
lactobacilli (Figure 6-8). The elongated cocci 
of width/length < 2 that are homolactic and 
produce only L-Iactic acid from sugar are con­
sidered short-rodded lactobacilli. That leaves 
us with the heterolactic, D-Iactic acid-produc­
ing, elongated cocci, which could be classified 
either as lactobacilli or leuconostocs. The as­
signment of genus to these confusing coccal 
forms is aided by the information that many 
strains of L. oenos are devoid of the enzymes to 
catabolize arginine (Garvie and Farrow 1980; 
Pilone and Liu 1992). This inability to produce 
ammonia from arginine can be used to verify Malolactic Fermentation 265 
anaerobes, catalase negative 
lactic acid from glucose 
RODS 
homolactic heterolactic 
D-Iactate 
L-Iactate 
DL-Iactate 
Lactobacillus COCCI 
heterolactic homolactic 
I D-r' I 
Leuconostoc Pediococcus 
I end products I 
very short rods= 
elongated cocci 
Lactobacillus Leuconostoc 
(see text) 
Fig. 6-4. Genera of wine-related lactic acid bacteria. 
strains as L. oenos, rather than as short-rodded, 
heterolactic, D-lactic acid-producing lacto­
bacilli. Two nonammonia-producing lacto­
bacillus species, with apparently all of these 
other features, are L. viridescens and L. con­
fusus. However, these two species are easily 
distinguished from Leuconostoc oenos in that 
the first one has always been isolated from 
animal sources, and the second one appears 
generally as single cells and rarely in chains 
(Sneath 1986). Pilone and Liu (1992) found 
under special conditions that some L. oenos 
do, indeed, produce ammonia from arginine. 
However, by use of the standard assay medium 
for this (Appendix F), with incubation at 20°C 
for two to three weeks, we usually have not 
had this experience. 
Pilone and Liu (1992) have expressed their 
worry that malolactic bacteria with high capa-bilities of degrading argmme might under 
winemaking conditions-in the presence of 
high concentrations of arginine-excrete 
enough citrulline to give ethanolation of the 
latter at high temperature to produce the un­
desirable end product ethyl carbamate 
(urethane) (Chapter 4). 
Garvie (1967) earlier made the very good 
suggestion, which has not been accepted, that 
these closely related short rodded or elon­
gated coccal organisms be placed in the same 
genus, since they have many other important 
features in common, such as the characteris­
tics of their lactic dehydrogenase enzymes. 
b. Species Identification of the 
Wine-Related Lactic Acid Bacteria 
I. Leuconostoc. The species identification 
for the wine leuconostocs is especially simple. 266 Malolactic Fermentation 
glucose 
phosphoketolase YATP 
glucose~-phosphate 
t ~ 6-phosphogluconate ~ ribulose-5-phosphate 
( ~ (~+C02 
NADP+ NADPH, NADP+ NADPH, 
H+ H+ 
fructose-6-phosphate rATP 
fructose-1 ,6-diphosphate 
dlhydroxyacetone 
phosphate ~ glyceraldehyde-
3-phosphate 
NAD+ V NADH, 
}-... H+ 
1 ,3-diphosphoglycerate 
~ATP 
3-phosphoglycerate 
t 
2-phosphoglycerate 
t 
phosphoenol pyruvate 
~ATP phosphoroclastase 
+ADP 
acetate ~ acetylphosphate 
+ATP 
VNADH, H+ 
~ NAD+ 
+P j 
acetaldehyde rNADH , 
H+ 
NAD+ 
ethanol 
pyruvate n lactate 
Fig. 6-5. Homolactic and heterolactic fermentations. 
If the leuconostoc in question has been iso­
lated from wine, then it is automatically classi­
fied as L. oenos; only strains of this species will 
grow in the presence of 10% ethanol at pH 
values less than pH 4.2 (Garvie 1967; Sneath 
1986; Holt et al. 1993) (see Figure 6-7). H. Pediococcus. Except for Pediococcus uri­
naeequi, the eight species of pediococcus are 
widely distributed in fermenting vegetable ma­
terial (see Figure 6-6). Table 6-1 gives the 
distinguishing characteristics of the four 
species that will grow at pH 4.2 or below. The J 
.." •• • 
• I-
• • • 1,\ 
, 
• 
0 " 
Fig. 6-6. Pediococcus parvulus. 
) , 
r l • 
""-1 
I 
• 
( 
Fig. 6-7. Leuconostoc oenos. 0 
" 
• ., t 
• Malolactic Fermentation 267 
Fig. 6-8. Lactobacillus buchneri. 
wine-related pediococci have earlier been clas­
sifIed Pediococcus damnosus (formerly P. cere­
visiae), but P. parvulus and P. pentoseus have 
also been isolated from wine, the latter from 
thermovinifications, and will show growth at 
40°C (Barre 1978). P. acidilactici is closely re­
lated. There is a general, and probably un­
founded, abhorrence of pediococci by wine­
makers, possibly stemming from the close as-
Table 6-1. Wine-related Pediococcus species. The eight 
species of Pediococcus (except for P. urinaeequi) are 
widely distributed in fermenting vegetable material. 
Below is an abbreviated taxonomy (from Sneath 1986) 
of those species that will grow at pH 4.2 or below . 
Growth at: 
P. damnosus 
P. parvulus 
P. pentosaceus 
P. acidilactici + 
+ 
+ + 
+ + 268 Malolactic Fermentation 
sociation of beer spoilages with one of these 
species having the unfortunate name of P. 
damnosus. Work by Edwards and Jensen (1992) 
indicates that the former designation of wine­
related pediococci as P. damnosus is incorrect 
and they should be classified as P. parvulus. 
Several strains of nonmalolactic pediococci 
have been recently isolated from wine (Ed­
wards and Jensen 1992). We have noted above, 
it is not clear what role they might play either 
in providing bacteriological stability or being 
the source of spoilage end products. 
III. Lactobacillus. In Table 6-2 are listed 
the distinguishing characteristics of species of 
lactobacilli which have been isolated from wine 
and from other plant materials (see Figure 
6-8). Species classification of the wine-related 
lactobacilli has not commanded great atten­
tion of winemakers, since these organisms as a 
class show little resistance to the low pHs found 
in wine (Davis et al. 1988). However, during 
the last decade in California, some species 
have shown themselves as ferocious spoilers of 
wine. They manifest themselves by bringing 
about a rapid spoilage, especially of red wines, 
very early in the vinification, producing 
enough acetic acid in two to three days to 
bring about inhibition of the wine yeast 
metabolism. This dramatic spoilage, discussed 
further in Chapter 9, seems to be related to 
the initial high pH of some musts, along with a 
deficiency in nutrients in the must and with 
employment of improper winemaking tech­
niques. Of the lactobacilli, two species have been 
shown to be especially important in the 
spoilage of high-alcohol dessert wine L. hilgar­
dii and L. fructivorans (Table 6-2) (Figure 6-9). 
Older winemakers may recognize the latter 
species by the former names of L. fermenti, or 
L. trichodes (Radler and Hartel 1984). Further 
discussion of this spoilage and its control is 
given in Chapter 9. 
c. Strain Identification of the 
Wine-Related Lactic Acid Bacteria 
So many of the attributes of malolactic bacte­
ria which make them desirable candidates as 
starter cultures for winemaking are strain de­
pendent, including behavioral performance 
during the malolactic fermentation-speed 
and reliability in initiation of the growth phase 
and completion of the deacidification; sensory 
characteristics of the fermented product; ease 
in growth of the bacteria for commercial dis­
tribution; and extent of recovery of viability 
after the cultures have been subjected to being 
frozen and dried. Furthermore, the extent of 
stimulation of initial growth rate by malic acid, 
a primary consideration, is also strain related 
(Section I-I). The historical attempts at strain 
identification of malolactic bacteria have been 
as tenuous as those for the wine-related yeast 
(Chapter 4). Some attempts at strain identifi­
cation on the basis of fatty acid composition, 
as was shown with yeast strain identification, 
have given limited success (Tracey and Britz 
1989a; Schmitt et al. 1989). Efforts to use some 
Table 6-2a. Wine-related Lactobacillus species. Homolactic fermenters: aldolase present, phosphoketolase may be inducible. 
Species 
L. bavaricus 
L. casei subsp. casei 
L. murinus * 
L. homohiochii 
L. curvatus 
L. sake 
L. plantarum Type oflactice 
acid formed 
L 
L 
L 
DL 
DL 
DL 
DL 
* Isolated from rodent gut, but has malolactic activity. Mannitol 
+ 
+/-
+ Growth on 
Melibiose 
+ 
+ 
+ Galactose 
+ 
+ 
+ + Arabinose 
+ Malolactic Fermentation 269 
Table 6-2b. Heterolactic fementers: aldolase not present, phosphoketolase always inducible. 
Growth at Growth on 
Species 15°C Melibiose Melezitose Xylose Short rods? 
Lfermentum 
L Mevis + + yes 
L. buchneri + + + yes 
L. fructivorans + 
L. hilgardii + + 
L. kefr * + + no 
* L. heftr, from fermented milk, has also been isolated from beer; but it is genomically unrelated to the other heterolactics. 
sort of karyogamic analysis, the hybridization 
with DNA probes, resulted in distinguishing 
lactic acid bacteria, but only at the species 
level (Lonvaud-Funel et al. 1991). However, 
the use of karyogamic typing holds promise. 
The initial works for the distinguishing Leu­
conostoc oenos strains by pulsed-field gel elec-
Fig. 6-9. Lactobacillus fructivorans. trophoresis (PFGE) patterns of nuclear mate­
rial after restriction enzyme treatment, which 
have been used for other lactic acid bacteria 
(LeBourgeois et al. 1989), are very encourag­
ing (Kelly et al. 1993; Daniel et al. 1993). 
Undoubtedly this methodology will be further 
applied, although the technology is not readily 
available to winery laboratories at present. 
I. INTERMEDIARY METABOLISM OF 
THE MAlOlAOIC CONVERSION 
Malate carboxy lyase (the malolactic enzyme) 
is the operative enzyme carrying out the malo­
lactic conversion (Table 6-3). It is a direct 
decarboxylation of L( -}-malic acid to L( + )­
lactic acid. The enzyme has not yet been crys­
tallized; however, there has been an extensive 
study on the isolation and characterization of 
the enzyme(s) from various malolactic strains 
(Schutz and Radler 1973; Lonvaud et al. 1977; 
Caspritz and Radler 1983; Spettoli et al. 1984) 
and a summary by Kunkee (1991). It is inter­
esting to note that although the substrate and 
the product are of the same enantiomophoric 
configurative, they rotate the planes of polar­
ized light in opposite directions (Kunkee 
1967a). The malolactic enzyme is inducible, 
and the activities found are dependent upon 
the strain and the cultural conditions of the 
bacteria. The presence of glucose, or at least a 
fermentable sugar, is necessary for induction 
of the malolactic enzyme (Nathan 1961). 270 Malolactic Fermentation 
Table 6-3. Malic acid enzymes. 
malolactic enzyme L-malate: NAD carboxy lyase 
NAD 
L-malate ( ----:;:-:;:- > L-lactate + CO 2 Mn (I) 
malic dehydrogenase L-malate: NAD oxidoreductase EC 1.1.1.37 
Mn++ 
L-malate + NAD (-- > oxaloacetate + NADH (2) 
malate oxidase L-malate: NAD oxidoreductase (decarboxylating) ECl.l.1.38 or .39 
Mn++ 
L-malate + NAD (-- > pyruvate + NADH + CO 2 (3) 
malate-lactate transhydrogenase 
NAD 
L-malate + pyruvate (-- > oxaloacetate + L-lactate (4) 
1. Stimulation of Initial Growth Rate by 
Malic Acid 
Other enzymes which have malic acid as a 
substrate are given above in Table 6-3. Malic 
oxidase is an important enzyme found in many 
lactic acid bacteria. It also is induced by malic 
acid. One important distinction between it and 
the malolactic enzyme, however, is that the 
formation of malic oxidase is repressed by 
glucose. The presence of both enzymes in the 
same strain, depending upon the concentra­
tions of glucose, has been reported (Schutz 
and Radler 1973). The malate-lactate transhy­
drogenase enzyme (Table 6-3) is not a decar­
boxylation (Allen and Patil 1972), but is in­
cluded for completeness. 
The thermodynamics of the malolactic con­
version, and the relationship to the intermedi­
ary metabolism and cellular physiology of the 
malolactic bacteria have intrigued some enol­
ogists for several decades. For a more thor­
ough exposition of the following discussion 
see: Schanderl (1959), Kunkee (1974), Pilone 
and Kunkee (1976), Kunkee (1991), and 
Zhuorong and Kunkee (1993). The decarboxy­
lation of malic acid to lactic acid provides very 
little free energy C1C = - 8.3 ~Jlmole), if the 
carbon dioxide is released in the hydrated 
form, which it is (Kunkee 1967a, Pilone and 
Kunkee 1970). Furthermore, if the reaction is 
stoichiometric, then there is no biochemical 
basis for capturing the small amount of free 
energy as biologically utilizable energy, either in formation of ATP or in reoxidation of re­
duced coenzymes. On the other hand, the 
presence of malic acid has a dramatic stimula­
tory effect on the initial growth rate on many 
strains of malolactic bacteria (Figure 6-10), 
which cannot be explained solely by the ac­
companying favorable pH change provided by 
the decarboxylation (Pilone and Kunkee 1976). 
2. Spill Off of Intermediary Pyruvic Acid 
One cause of the stimulation of the initial 
growth rate of the bacteria in the presence of 
malic acid has been given by showing in vitro 
that the reaction is not stoichiometric. A small 
spill off of the intermediate pyruvic acid and 
reduced NAD+ occurs (Morenzoni 1973; Kun­
kee 1975). This spill off comes from less than 
1 % of the substrate malic acid, but the small 
amount of NADH accompanying it can be 
detected by its fluorescence. Enzymatic studies 
indicated that pyruvic acid accompanied the 
NADH, rather than the nondecarboxylated in­
termediate, oxaloacetic acid. An enzymatic 
phosphoroclastic attack of the pyruvate results 
in the formation of acetyl phosphate. This is 
then available as a hydrogen acceptor, not 
only to reoxidize the NADH formed in the 
spill off, but of another NADH from acetalde­
hyde as well. This net formation of reoxidized 
coenzyme thus allows the stimulation of the 
growth of the bacteria out of the lag phase, 
where the NAD + moieties are generally in the 
reduced state. Malolactic Fermentation 271 
0.1.---------------------------------~------~ 
E c:: 
~ 
<C 0.05 
0.02 o With malic acid, initial pH 3.6 
o Without malic acid, initial pH 3.6 
• Without malic acid, initial pH 3.8 
0.01 '--'--'-..L-..L-L--'--'--'--'-..L-..L-'--'--'--'--L-..L-..L-'--'--.l...-J.-'-....L.......J'--'--'--'---' ........ 
o 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 
Time (days) 
Fig. 6-10. Stimulation of initial growth rate of Leuconostec oenos MeW by malic 
acid. 
Any acetyl phosphate formed from the 
spilloff could also result in the formation of 
ATP, which could have a positive effect either 
on the bacterial growth rate or the formation 
of bacterial biomass. However, increased ATP 
would serve as increase in substrate, rather 
than as increase in a catalyst, as with reoxi­
dized NAD+; and the small increase in ATP 
would seem to be insignificant and essentially 
unmeasurable. 
Confirmatory evidence that the stimulatory 
effect on growth comes from the acetyl phos­
phate acting as a hydrogen acceptor is found 
in the fact that other hydrogen acceptors also 
induce the same effect. For example, fructose 
can be reduced to mannitol by heterolactic 
bacteria, and the presence of fructose brings 
about the same stimulation of initial growth 
rate of these bacteria (Kunkee 1974). More­
over, in malolactic fermentations of cider, it 
has been shown that the quinates (quinic, 
shikimic and dihydroshikimic acids) are easily 
reduced by malolactic bacteria, and their growth is stimulated thereby (Whiting and 
Coggins 1971; Whiting 1975) (Figure 6-11). 
Although these compounds are found in 
higher concentrations in apples, they are also 
found in crushed grapes (Flanzy et al. 1967); 
their effect as hydrogen acceptors helps con­
firm the mechanism of malic acid stimulation. 
Lee and Pack (1980) also found a stimulation 
in the presence of malic acid, in this case of 
D-Iactate dehydrogenase. This, along with in­
creased reoxidation of reduced NAD +, serves 
to explain the increased formation of D-Iactic 
acid also found during malolactic fermenta­
tion (Alizade and Simon 1973; Kunkee 1991). 
But the most striking confirmatory evidence 
comes from the results which showed that in 
the malolactic strains where the stimulation of 
the early growth rate by malic acid was found, 
and only in those, was the corresponding 
spill off also found. That is, of the strains tested, 
the growth of 11 strains was stimulated in the 
presence of malic acid, and these 11 strains 
also gave the formation of NADH in cell-free 272 Malolactic Fermentation 
quinic acid 
Fig. 6-11. Hydrogen acceptors for malo­
lactic stimulation and for lactic acid oxida­
tion. shikimic acid 
extracts; the remammg four strains showed 
neither effect (Pukrushpan 1976; Zhuorong 
and Kunkee 1993). 
3. Efflux of Lactic Acid 
A cellular efflux of lactic acid arising from the 
malolactic conversion could also provide extra 
energy, in the same manor as it is generated 
by lactic acid coming from sugar fermenta­
tion. This involves membrane ATPase and 
reentry of the protons through a contiguous 
symport with the resulting formation of one 
ATP for every three protons (Michels et al. 
1979; Otto et al. 1980). Renault et al. (1988) 
adapted the idea of this unexpected source of 
energy to help explain the effect of malic acid 
on malolactic bacterial energetics-however, 
using nonwine-related lactococcus. In fact, Cox 
and Henick-Kling (1989), using a very sensitive 
bioluminescence technique, showed an in­
creased formation of ATP in malolactic cells 
in the presence of malic acid. However, in­
creased ATP formation, if in the significant 
amounts suggested, would seem to have the 
greatest operative effect as a stimulation of 
formation of biomass toward the end of the 
growth cycle, precisely when the efflux effect would be minimal due to the increased extra­
cellular concentrations of lactic acid. 
Another source of energy could come, un­
expectedly, from the metabolism of lactic acid, 
itself. In the reductive steps of the quinate, 
discussed above, it has been shown that either 
D-or L-Iactic acids can serve as hydrogen 
donors. Even though lactic acid is considered 
to be an end product of anaerobic metabolism 
of the lactic acid bacteria, it is at least, theoret­
ically, possible for these bacteria to produce 
an electron acceptor alternative to oxygen 
(London 1968) (Figure 6-11). 
2 quinate + lactate -) 2 dihydroshikimate 
+ acetate + CO 2 + H20 
quinate + lactate -) 3,4 dihydroxycyclohexane­
carboxylate + acetate + CO 2 + H20 
4. Significance of the Malic Acid 
Stimulation 
In any case, it is certain that the malolactic 
conversion has a positive effect on bacterial 
growth in wine, at least by bringing about an 
increase in pH and helping to maintain the 
higher internal pH of the cells. The question as to additional mechanisms of stimulation by 
malic acid may seem moot to many winemak­
ers, since malic acid will always be present 
whenever there is concern for induction of 
the malolactic fermentation. However, it is 
important to select strains in which the initial 
stimulation by malic acid has been shown. 
Moreover, additional information on the fun­
damental aspects of the malolactic metabolism 
can lead to improvements in the practical as­
pects, as has happened before. Modern wine­
makers may be pleased with the dramatic im­
provement made in the practical applications 
of the malolactic fermentation over the last 
three decades; however, intractable fermenta­
tions still occur, for which new stimulatory 
technology would be welcome. 
J. REFERENCES 
ACREE, T. E., J. BARNARD, AND D. G. CUNNINGHAM. 
1984. "A procedure for the sensory analysis of 
gas chromatographic effluents." Food. Chem. 
14:273-286. 
ALLEN, S. H. G., AND J. R. PAT!L. 1972. "Studies on 
the structure and mechanism of action of 
malate-lactate transhydrogenase." J. Biol. Chem. 
247:909-916. 
ALIZADE, M. A, AND H. SIMON. 1973. "Zum Mercha­
nismus und zur Kompartmentierung der L-und 
D-Lactatbildung aus L-Malat bzw. D-Glucose in 
Leuconstoc mesenteroides." Z. Physiol. Chem. 
354:163-168. 
AMACHI, T. 1975. "Chemical structure of a growth 
factor (TJF) and its physiological significance for 
malo-lactic bacteria." In Lactic Acid Bacteria in 
Beverages and Food, J. G. Carr, C. V. Cutting, and 
G. C. Whiting, Eds., pp. 103-118. London: Aca­
demic Press. 
AMACHI, T., S. IMAMOTO, AND H. YOSHIZUMJ. 1971. 
"A growth factor for malo-lactic fermentation 
bacteria. Part II. Structure and synthesis of a 
novel pantothenic acid derivative isolated from 
tomato juice." Agric. Biol. Chem. 35:1222-1230. 
AMAT!, A, G. ARFELLI, E. DELL'AcQUA, AND R. ZIRONJ. 
1993. "Lysozyme: A new product to control mal­
olactic fermentation in enology. Its application 
and results." Paper presented at 44th Annual Malolactic Fermentation 273 
Meeting of the American Society for Enology 
and Viticulture,June 22-25 1993, at Sacramento 
Convention Center, Sacramento, California. 
1993 Technical Abstracts, p,42. 
AMERINE, M. A, H. W. BERG, R. E. KUNKEE, C. S. 
OUGH, V. L. SINGLETON, AND A D. WEBB. 1980. 
The Technology of Wine Making, 4th ed. Westport, 
CT: Avi Publishing Co. 
AMERINE, M. A, AND E. B. ROESSLER. 1983. Wines 
Their Sensory Evaluation, 2nd ed. San Francisco: 
W. H. Freeman and Company. 
AsMUNDSON, R. V., AND W.J. KELLY. 1990. "Temper­
ature and ethanol effects on growth of Leuconos­
toc oenos." In Fermentation Technologies: Industrial 
Applications, P.-K. Yu, Ed., pp. 128-131. Interna­
tional Biotechnology Conference, February 
12-15 1990, Massey University, Palmerston 
North, New York: Elsevier Applied Science. 
BARRE, P. 1978. "Identification of thermobacteria 
and homofermentative, thermophilic, pentose­
utilizing lactobacilli from high temperature fer­
menting grape musts." J. Appl. Bacteriol. 
44:125-129. 
BASSIT, N., C.-Y. BOQUIEN, D. PICQUE, AND G. COR­
RIEU. 1993. "Effect of initial oxygen concentra­
tion on diacetyl and acetoin production by Lac­
toccocus lactis subsp. lactis biovar. diacetylactis." 
Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 59:1893-1897. 
BEELMAN, R. B., AND J. F. GALLANDER. 1979. "Wine 
deacidification." Adv. Food. Res. 25:1-53. 
BEELMAN, R. B., AND R. E. KUNKEE. 1987. "Inducing 
simultaneous malolactic/alcoholic fermenta­
tions." Pract. Winery Vyd. July / Aug:44- 56. 
BENDA, I. 1982. "Wine and brandy." In, Prescott and 
Dunn s Industrial Microbiology, G. Reed, Ed., pp. 
293-402. Westport, CT: AVI Publishing. 
BUTEAU, C., C. L. DUITSCHAEVER, AND G. C. AsHTON 
1984. "A study of the biogenesis of amines in a 
Villard noir wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 35:228-236. 
CASPRITZ, G., AND F. RADLER. 1983. "Malolactic en­
zyme of Lactobacillus plantarum. Purification, 
properties, and distribution among bacteria." J. 
Biol. Chem. 258:4907-4910. 
CAVIN, J. F., F. Z. DRICI, H. PREVOST, AND C. DMES. 
1991. "Prophage curing in Leuconostoc oenos by 
Mitomycin C induction." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
42:163-166. 274 Malolactic Fermentation 
COFRfu"l, D. R., A,"ID J. MEYER. 1970. "The effect of 
fumaric acid on malo-lactic fermentation." Am. 
I Enol. Vitic. 21:190-192. 
COLLINS, E. B. 1972. "Biosynthesis of flavor com­
pounds by microorganisms." I Dairy Sci. 
55: 1 022- 1 028. 
Cox, D. J., AND T. HENICK-KLING. 1989. "Chem­
osmotic energy from malolactic fermentation." 
I Bacteriol. 170:5750-5752. 
DAESCHEL, M. A., D.-S. JUNG, AND B. T. WATSON. 
1991. "Controlling wine malolactic fermentation 
with nisin and nisin-resistant strains of Leuconos­
toc oenos." Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 57:601-603. 
DANIEL, P., E. DE WAELE, AND J.-N. HALLET. 1993. 
"Optimization of transverse alternating field 
electrophoresis for strain identification of Leu­
conostoc oenos." Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 
38:638-641. 
DAVIS, C., N. F. A. SILVEIRA, AND G. H. FLEET. 1985a. 
"Occurrence and properties of bacteriophages 
of Leuconostoc oenos in Australian wines." Appl. 
Environ. Microbiol. 50:872-876. 
DAVIS, C. R., D. J. WIBOWO, R. ESCHENBRUCH, T. H. 
LEE, fu"lD G. H. FLEET. 1985b. "Practical implica­
tions of malolactic fermentation: A review." Am. 
I Enol. Vitic. 36:290-301. 
DAVIS, C. R., D. WIBOWO, G. H. FLEET, AND T. H. 
LEE. 1988. "Properties of wine lactic acid bacte­
ria: Their potential enological significance." Am. 
I Enol. Vitic. 39:137-142. 
DAVIS, C. R., D. J. WIBOWO, T. H. LEE, AND G. H. 
FLEET. 1986. "Growth and metabolism of lactic 
acid bacteria during and after malolactic fer­
mentation of wines at different pH." Appl. Envi­
ron. Microbiol. 51:539-545. 
DELFINI, C. 1989. "Ability of wine malolactic bacte­
ria to produce histamine." Sci. Aliments 
9:413-416. 
DE ROSA, T. 1987. Tecnologia dei Vini Spumanti. Bres­
cia, Italy: Edizioni AEB. 
DICK, K. J., P. C. MOLAN, AND R. ESCHENBRUCH. 
1992. "The isolation from Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
of two antibacterial cationic proteins that inhibit 
malolactic bacteria." Vitis 31:105-116. 
Du PLESSIS, L. DE W. 1963. "The microbiology of 
South Mrican winemaking. Part V. Vitamin and 
amino acid requirements of the lactic acid bacte­
ria from dry wines." S. African I Agric. Sci. 
6:485-494. EDWARDS, C. G., AND R. B. BEELMAN. 1989. "Induc­
ing malolactic fermentation in wines." Biotech. 
Adv. 7:333-360. 
EDWARDS, C. G., AND K. A. JENSEN. 1992. "Occur­
rence and characterization of lactic acid bacteria 
from Washington State wines: Pediococcus spp.·' 
Am.I Enol. Vitic. 43:233-238. 
EDWARDS, C. G., J. R. POVVERS, K. A. JENSEN, K. M. 
WELLER, AND J. C. PETERSON. 1993. "Lactobacillus 
spp. from Washington State wines: isolation and 
characterization." I Food Sci. 58:453-458. 
FLANZY, C. 1972. "La vinification par maceration 
carbonique." Rev. Franc. Genol. 13 (45):42-50. 
FLANZY, M., A,"ID P. ANDRE. 1973. La Vinification par 
Maceration Carbonique. Versailles, France: 
Ministere de l'Agriculture, Institut National de 
la Recherche Agronomique. 
FLANZY, C., M. ANDRE, M. FLANZY, AND Y. CHA,\1BROY. 
1967. "Variations quantitives des acides or­
ganiques stables, non cetoniques, non volatils, 
dans les baies de raisin placees en anaerobiose 
carbonique. II. Influence de la duree 
d'anaerobiose." Ann. Technol. Agric. 16:89-107. 
FORNACHOJ\, J. C. M. 1957. "The occurrence of 
malo-lactic fermentation in Australian wines." 
Austral.I Appl. Sci. 8:120-129. 
FORNACHON, J. C. M. 1968. "Influence of different 
yeasts on the growth of lactic acid bacteria in 
wine." I Sci. Food Agric. 19:374-378. 
FROHLICH, D., AND R. BATTAGLIA. 1980. "HPCL­
Analyse von biogenen Aminien in Wein." Mitt. 
Geb. Lebensmittelunters. Hyg. 71:38-44. 
FUGELSANG, K. C., AND B. W. ZOECKLEIJ\. 1993. "Ex­
clusive PW MLF survey." Pract. Winery Vyd. 
May jjune 12-18. 
GARVIE, E. I. 1967. Leuconostoc oenos sp. nov. I Gen 
Microbiol. 48:431-8. 
GARVIE, E. I., AND J. A. FARROW. 1980. "The differ­
entiation of Leuconostoc oenos from non­
acidophilic species of leuconostoc, and the iden· 
tification of five strains from the American Type 
Culture Collection." Am. I Enol. Vitic. 
31:154-157. 
GUiLLoux-BENATIER, M., H. S. SON, S. BOUHIER, AND 
M. FEUILLAT. 1993. "Activit<::s enzymatiques: Gly­
cosidases et peptidase chez Leuconostoc oenos au 
cours de la croissance bacterienne. Influence 
des macromolecules de levures." Vitis 32:52-57. 
HARVEY, R. J., AND E. B. COLLINS. 1963. "Roles of 
citrate and acetoin in the metabolism of Strepto­
coccus diacetilactis." I Bacteriol. 86: 130 1-1307. HENICK-KLING, T. 1986. "Control of malolactic fer­
mentation." In Technical Review No. 41, pp. 3-6. 
Adelaide: The Australian Wine Research Insti­
tute. 
HENICK-KLING, T. 1988. "Yeast and bacterial control 
in winemaking." In Wine Analysis, H.F. Linskens, 
and J. F. Jackson, Eds., pp. 276-316. Berlin: 
Springer-Verlag. 
HENICK-KuNG, T. 1993. "Modification of wine 
flavour by malolactic fermentation." 10th Inter­
national Oenological Symposium, May 3-5, 1993, 
pp. 290-306. Breisach, Germany: International 
Association for Winery Technology and Manage­
ment. 
HENICK-KLING, T., T. H. LEE, AND D. J. D. NICHOLAS. 
1986. "Inhibition of bacterial growth and malo­
lactic fermentation in wine by bacteriophage."]' 
Appl. Bacteriol. 61:287-293. 
HIARIl'\G, S. 1974. "Carbonic maceration as done in 
California." Wines & Vines. 55(4):65-66. 
HOLT, J. G., N. R. KRiEG, P. H. A. Sl'\EATH, J. T. 
STALEY, AND S. T. WILLIAMS. 1993. Bergey s Manual 
of Determinative Bacteriology, 9th ed. Baltimore: 
Williams & Wilkins. 
HUGENHOLTZ, J., L. PERDON, A:'lD T. ABEE. 1993. 
"Growth and energy generation by Lactococcus­
lactis subsp. lactis biovar. diacetylactis during cit­
rate metabolism." Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 
59:4216-4222. 
HUGENHOLTZ, J., AND M. J. C. STARRENBURG. 1992. 
"Diacetyl production by different strains of Lac­
tococcus lactic subsp. lactis var. diacetylactis and 
Leuconostoc spp." ]. Dairy Res. 55:17-22. 
Il'\GRAHAM,J. L., A:,D G. M. COOKE. 1960. "A survey 
of the incidence of malo-lactic fermentation in 
California table wines." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
11: 160-163. 
KELLY, W.J., R. V. AsMUNDSON, A:,\,D D. H. HOPCROFT. 
1989. "Growth of Leuconostoc oenos under anaer­
obic conditions." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 40:277-282. 
KELLY, W. J., C. M. HUA.'lG, AND R. V. AsMVNDSON. 
1993. "Comparison of Leuconostoc oenos strains 
by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis." Appl. Envi­
ron. Microbiol. 59:3969-3971. 
KiNG, S. W., AND R. B. BEELMAN. 1986. "Metabolic 
interactions between Saccharomyces cerevisiae and 
Leuconostoc oenos in a model grape juice/wine 
system." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 37:53-60. Malolactic Fermentation 275 
K.LAENHAMMER, T. R. 1987. "Plasmid-directed mech­
anisms for bacteriophage defense in lactic strep­
tococci." FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 46:313-325. 
KRiEGER, S. A., B. PFITZER, AND W. P. HAMMES. 1993. 
"Evaluation of lactic acid bacterial strains for 
diacetyl production." Poster presented at 44th 
Annual Meeting of the American Society for 
Enology and Viticulture, June 22-25 1993, at 
Sacramento Convention Center, Sacramento, 
California. 1993 Technical Abstracts, p. 64. 
KUENSCH, W., A. TEMPERLI, AND K. MEYER. 1974. 
"Conversion of arginine to ornithine during 
malolactic fermentation in red Swiss wine." Am. 
]. Enol. Vitic. 25:191-193. 
KUMMEL, A., G. BEHRENS, AND G. GOTTSCHALK. 1975. 
"Citrate lyase from Streptococcus diacetilactis. Asso­
ciation with its acetylating enzyme." Arch. Micro­
biol.102:111-116. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1967a. "Malo-lactic fermentation." 
Adv. Appl. Microbiol. 9:235-279. 
KVNKEE, R. E. 1967b. "Theoretical changes in pH 
accompanying malolactic fermentation." Paper 
presented at 18th Annual Meeting of the Ameri­
can Society for Enology and Viticulture, June 
22-24 1967, at Santa Barbara, California. 1967 
Technical Abstracts, p. 10. 
KU:-.IKEE, R. E. 1968. "Simplified chromatographic 
procedure for detection of malo-lactic fermenta­
tion." Wines & Vines 49(3):23-24. 
KU:-.IKEE, R. E. 1974. "Malo-lactic fermentation and 
winemaking." In, The Chemistry of Winemaking, 
Adv. Chem. Ser. 137, A. D. Webb, Ed., pp. 
151-170. Washington DC: American Chemical 
Society. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1975. "A second enzymatic activity 
for decomposition of malic acid by malo-lactic 
bacteria." In Lactic Acid Bacteria in Beverages and 
Food, J. G. Carr, C. V. Cutting, and G. C. Whit­
ing, Eds., pp. 29-42. London: Academic Press. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1984. "Selection and modification of 
yeasts and lactic acid bacteria for wine fermenta­
tion." Food. Microbiol. 1:315-332. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1991. "Some roles of malic acid in 
the malolactic fermentation in wine making." 
FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 88:55-72. 
KUNKEE, R. E., G. J. PILONE, A."ID R. E. COMBS. 1965. 
"The occurrence of malo-lactic fermentation in 
southern California wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
16:219-223. 276 Malolactic Fermentation 
LAFOLLETIE, G. T. 1991. Chemical and Sensory 
Influences of Sur Lies on Chardonnay Wines. 
MS thesis, Davis, CA: University of California. 
LEBOUGEOIS, P., M. MATA, AND P. RITZENTHALER. 
1989. "Genome comparison of Lactococcus strains 
by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis." FEMS Micro­
bioi. Lett. 59:65-70. 
LEE, S. 0., AND M. Y. PACK. 1980. "Malate stimula­
tion on growth rate of Leuconostoc oenos. " Korean 
]. Appl. Microbiol. Bioeng. 8:221-227. 
LoNDON, J. 1968. "Regulation and function of lac­
tate oxidation in Streptococcus faecium." ]. Bacte­
riol. 95:1380-1387. 
LONVAUD, M., A. LONVAUD-FuNEL, AND P. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1977. "Le mecanisme de la fer­
men tation malolactiques des vins." Connais. Vi­
gne Vin 11:73-91. 
LONVAUn-FuNEL, A, C. FREMAUX, N. BITEAU, AND A. 
JOYEux. 1991. "Speciation of lactic acid bacteria 
from wines by hybridization with DNA probes." 
Food Microbiol. 8:215-222. 
LtiTHI, H., AND U. VETSCH. 1960. "Contributions to 
knowledge of the malolactic fermentation in 
wines and ciders. II. The growth promoting ef­
fect of yeast extract on lactic acid bacteria caus­
ing malolactic fermentation in wines." ]. Appl. 
Bacteriol. 22:384-391. 
MALLETROIT, V., ].-X. GUINARD, R. E. KUNKEE, AND 
M. J. LEWIS. 1991. "Effect of pasteurization on 
microbiological and sensory quality of white 
grape juice and wine." ]. Food Process. Preserv. 
15:19-29. 
MCCLOSKEY, L. P. 1980. "Enzymatic assay for malic 
acid and malo-lactic fermentation." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 31:212-215. 
MCCORKLE, K. 1974. "Carbonic maceration ... a 
beaujolais system for producing early-maturing 
red wine." Wines & Vines. 55(4):62-65. 
MELAMED, N. 1962. "Determination des sucres 
residue Is des vins, leur relation avec la fermenta­
tion malolactique." Ann. Techn, Agric. 
11:5-11,107-119. 
MICHELS, P. AM.,]. P.J. MICHELS,]. BOONSTRA, AND 
W. N. KONINGS. 1979. "Generation of an electro­
chemical proton gradient in bacteria by the ex­
cretion of metabolic end products." FEMS Mi­
crobiol. Lett. 5:357-364. 
MORENZONI, R. A 1973. A Second Enzymatic Malic 
Acid Decomposing Activity in Leuconostoc oenos. PhD thesis, Davis, CA: University of Cali­
fornia. 
NATHAN, H. A 1961. "Induction of malic enzyme 
and oxaloacetate decarboxylase in three lactic 
acid bacteria." ]. Gen. Microbiol. 25:415-420. 
OTTO, R.,]. HUGENHOLTZ, W. N. KONINGS, AND H. 
VELDKAMP. 1980. "Increase of molar growth yield 
of Streptococcus cremoris for lactose as a conse­
quence of lactate consumption by Pseudomonas 
stutzeri in mixed culture." FEMC Microbiol. Lett. 
9:85-88. 
OUGH, C. S., E. A. CROWEll., R. E. KUNKEE, M. R. 
VILAS, AND S. LAGIER. 1987. "A study of histamine 
production by various wine bacteria in model 
solutions and in wine." ]. Food Proc. Pres. 
12:63-70. 
OUGH, C. S., R. E. KUNKEE, M. R. VILAS, E. BORDEU, 
AND M.-C. HUANG. 1988. "The interaction of 
sulfur dioxide, pH, and dimethyl decarbonate 
on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Montra­
chet and Leuconostoc oenos MCW." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 38:279-282. 
PEYNAUD, E., S. LAFON-LAFOURCADE, AND S. DOMERcQ. 
1965. "Besoins nutritionnels de soixante-quarte 
souches de bacteries lactiques isolees de vins." 
Bull. OJ.V. 38:945-958. 
PILONE, G.]. 1975. "Control of malo-lactic fermen­
tation in table wines by addition of fumaric 
acid." In, Lactic Acid Bacteria in Beverages and 
Food,]. G. Carr, C. V. Cutting, and G. C. Whit­
ing, Eds., pp. 121-138. London: Academic Press. 
PILONE, G. ]., AND R. E. KUNKEE. 1965. "Sensory 
characterization of wines fermented with several 
malo-lactic strains of bacteria." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
16:224-230. 
PILONE, G. ]., AND R. E. KUNKEE. 1970. "Carbonic 
acid from decarboxylation by "malic" enzyme in 
lactic acid bacteria." ]. Bacteriol. 103:404-409. 
PILONE, G.]., AND R. E. KUNKEE. 1976. "Stimulatory 
effect of malolactic fermentation on the growth 
rate of Leuconostoc oenos." Appl. Environ. Micro­
biol. 32:405-408. 
PILONE, G. ]., AND S.-Q. Lm. 1992. "Arginine 
metabolism by malolactic bacteria and its oeno­
logical implications." In, Proceedings of the New 
Zealand Grape and Wine Symposium-Profit: In the 
Market, in the Winery, in the Vineyard, D. J. Jordan, 
Ed., pp. 100-105. Auckland, New Zealand: New 
Zealand Society for Viticulture and Oenology. POMPILIO, R. 1993. "Malolactic fermentation ... Who's 
doing what-and why?" Vyd. Winery Manag. 
19(6):44-47. 
Poux, C., AND M. CAILLET. 1969. "Dosage enzyma­
tique de l'acide L(-)malique." Ann. Technol.Agric. 
18:359-366. 
PRAHL, C., A. LONVAUD-FuNEL, S. KORSGAARD, E. 
MORRISON, AND A. JOYEux. 1988. "Etude d'un 
procede de declenchement de la fermentation 
malolactique." Conn. Vigne Yin 22:197-207. 
PUKRUSHPAN, L. 1976. The role of L-Malic acid in 
the metabolism of malo-lactic bacteria. PhD the­
sis, Davis, CA: University of California. 
RADLER, F. 1966. "Die mikrobiologischen Grundla­
gen des Saureabbaus im Wein." Zbl. Bakteriol. 
Parasitenkd.lnfektionskr.Hyg. Abt. II, 120:237-287. 
RADLER, F. 1975. "The metabolism of organic acids 
by lactic acid bacteria." In Lactic Acid Bacteria in 
Beverages and Food, J. G. Carr, C. V. Cutting, and 
G. C. Whiting, Eds., pp. 17-27. London: Aca­
demic Press. 
RADLER, F. 1990a. "Possible use of nisin in wine­
making. I. Action of nisin against lactic acid 
bacteria and wine yeasts in solid and liquid me­
dia." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:1-6. 
RADLER, F. 1990b. "Possible use of nisin in wine­
making. II. Experiments to control lactic acid 
bacteria in the production of wine." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 41:7-11. 
RADLER, F., AND S. HARTEL. 1984. Lactobacillus tri­
chodes, ein Alkoholabhangiges Milchsaurebak­
terium. Wein-Wiss. 39:106-112. 
RANKINE, B. C. 1967. "Influence of yeast strain and 
pH on pyruvic acid content of wines." ]. Sci. Food 
Agric. 18:41-44. 
RANKINE, B. C., J. C. M. FORNACHON, AND D. A. 
BRIDSON. 1969. "Diacetyl in Australian dry red 
table wines and its significance in wine quality." 
Vitis 8: 129- 134. 
RENAULT, P. C. GAILLARDIN, AND H. HESLOT. 1988. 
"Role of malolactic fermentation in lactic acid 
bacteria." Biochimie 70:375-379. 
ROGOSA, M., AND M. E. SHARPE. 1959. "An approach 
to classification of the lactobacilli." ]. Appl. Bac­
teriol. 22:329-340. 
RYNDERS, A. J. 1993. Effects of yeast strain, pH, and 
vitamin supplementation during vinification with 
simultaneous inoculation of Saccharomyces cere­
visiae and lactic acid bacteria. MS thesis, Davis, 
CA: University of California. Malolactic Fermentation 277 
SCHANDERL, H. 1959. Die Mikrobiologie des Mostes und 
Weines, 2nd ed. Stuttgart: Verlag Eugen Ulmer. 
SCHMITT, P., A. G. MATHOT, AND C. DIVIES. 1989. 
"Fatty acid composition of the genus Leuconos­
toc." Milchwiss. 44:556-559. 
SCHUTZ, M., AND F. RADLER. 1973. "Das 'Malaten­
zym' von Lactobacillus plantarum und Leuconostoc 
mesenteroides." Arch. Mikrobiol. 91:183-202. 
SNEATH, P. H. A. 1986. Bergey s Manual of Systematic 
Bacteriology, 1st ed., Vol. 2. Baltimore: Williams 
and Wilkins. 
SOZZI, T., R. MARET, AND J. M. POULIN. 1976. "Mis 
en evidence de bacteriophages dans Ie vin." 
Experientia 32:568-569. 
SPETTOLI, P., M. P. NUT!, AND A. ZAMORANI. 1984. 
"Properties of malolactic activity purified from 
Leuconostoc oenos ML34 by affinity chromatogra­
phy." Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 48:900-901. 
TRACEY, R. P., AND T.J. BRITZ. 1989a. "Cellular fatty 
acid composition of Leuconostoc oenos." ]. Appl. 
Bacteriol. 66:445-456. 
TRACEY, R. P., AND T.J. BRITZ. 1989b. "The effect of 
amino acids on malolactic fermentation by Leu­
conostoc oenos." ]. Appl. Bacteriol. 67:589-595. 
TROOST, G., AND H. HAUSHOFER. 1986. Perl- und 
Schaumwein. Stuttgart, Germany: Eugen Ulmer. 
VETSCH, U., AND H. LUTHI. 1964. "Decolorisation of 
red wines during biological decomposition of 
acids." Mitt. Geb. Lebensmittelunter.Hyg. 55:93-98. 
VIDAL-CAROU, M. C., A. AMBATLLE-EspuNYEs, M. C. 
ULLA-ULLA, AND A. MARINE-FONT. 1990. "Hista­
mine and tyramine in Spanish wines: their for­
mation during the winemaking process." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 41:160-167. 
VIDAL-CARou, M. C., R. CODONY-SALCEDO, AND A. 
MARINE-FONT. 1991. "Changes in the concentra­
tion of histamine and tyramine during wine 
spoilage at various temperatures." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 42: 145-149. 
WEILLER, H. G., AND F. RADLER. 1972. "Vitamin- und 
Aminosaurebedarf von Milchsaurebakterien aus 
Wein und von Rebenblattern." Mitt. 
Klosterneuburg 22:4-18. 
WEILLER, H. G., AND F. RADLER. 1976. "Uber den 
Aminosaurestoffwechsel von Milchsaurebak­
terien aus Wein." Z. Lebensm. Unters. Forsch. 
161:259-266. 278 Malolactic Fermentation 
WHITING, G. C. 1975. "Some biochemical and 
flavour aspects of lactic acid bacteria in ciders 
and other alcoholic beverages." In, Lactic Acid 
Bacteria in Beverages and Food, J. G. Carr, C. V. 
Cutting, and G. C. Whiting, Eds., pp. 69-85. 
London: Academic Press. 
WHITING, G. C., AND COGGINS, R. A. 1971. "The role 
of quinate and shikimate in the metabolism of 
lactobacilli." Ant. Leeuwen. 37:33-49. 
WIBOWO, D., R. ESCHENBRUCH, C. R. DAVIS, G. H. 
FLEET, AND T. H. LEE. 1985. "Occurrence and 
growth of lactic acid bacteria in wine: a review." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:302-313. WOOD, W. A. 1961. "Fermentation of carbohydrates 
and related compounds." In The Bacteria, I. C. 
Gunsalus and R. Y. Stanier, Eds., Vol. 2, pp. 
59-149. New York: Academic Press. 
YOSHIZUMI H. 1975. "A malo-lactic bacterium and 
its growth factor." In Lactic Acid Bacteria in Bever­
ages and Food, J. G. Carr, C. V. Cutting, and G. C. 
Whiting, Eds., pp. 87-102. London: Academic 
Press. 
ZHUORONG, Y., AND R. E. KCNKEE. 1993. "Stimula­
tion of growth rates of malolactic bacteria from 
incomplete conversion of L-malic acid to L-lactic 
acid." FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 12(1-3):50. CHAPTER 7 
THE FINING AND CLARIFICATION 
OF WINES 
A. ASPECTS OF CLARIFICATION 
The purposes of clarification and fining dur­
ing wine processing include removal of exces­
sive levels of certain wine components, achiev­
ing clarity, and making that clarity stable espe­
cially from a physicochemical viewpoint. The 
noun fining is used in winemaking to describe 
the deliberate addition of an adsorptive com­
pound that is followed by the settling or pre­
cipitation of partially soluble components from 
the wine. The materials used for these reasons 
are collectively referred to as fining agents, 
even though the solutes that they address and 
the mechanism of their removal vary consider­
ably. The need to employ such treatments is 
often determined not only by compositional 
aspects of the musts but also by the winemak­
ing practices that have been employed. 
Examples of such fining reactions are: (1) 
The removal of tannic and/or brown poly­
meric phenols by proteinaceous fining agents 
such as casein, isinglass, albumin, and gelatin; 
(2) the adsorption of wine proteins by ex­
changing clays such as the bentonites; (3) the depletion of monomeric and small polymeric 
phenols by polyamide materials such as 
polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (PVPP, trade name 
Polyclar AT) and nylon; (4) the elimination of 
unpleasant odors by copper sulfate or other 
procedures, and (5) the removal of fine col­
loidal particle and incipient precipitates by the 
sieving effect of other gelatinous materials. 
In each case, the adsorbent (or fining agent) 
has several adsorption sites on each bead or 
molecule and a number of solute molecules 
are either adsorbed to its surface or ex­
changed into its interior. The mechanism is 
usually one of hydrogen bonding between ex­
posed carbonyl groups at the surface of the 
adsorbent (the protein) and hydroxy groups of 
the phenol (or tannin). Several of the agents 
currently in use (such as the proteins and the 
gums) are colloidal in nature and as the ad­
sorption occurs their solubility is reduced, re­
sulting in precipitation of the solute/agent 
complex from the solution. 
The amount of solute removed by a certain 
addition of an agent will depend on the so­
lute/agent pair as well as the concentration of 
279 280 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
the solute in the wine and the quantity of the 
agent added. In special circumstances there is 
a direct relationship between the amount of 
agent added and the amount of the compo­
nent removed, but in general, this will not be 
the case. The more usual condition will be 
one in which increasing levels of addition will 
result in further depletion of component con­
centrations, but with decreasing effectiveness. 
For this reason, it is necessary to understand 
the equilibrium that is established between the 
solute and the agent to understand the way in 
which the solute concentration is reduced as 
the agent addition is increased. 
It is important to realize that the fining of 
wines by the addition of an adsorptive agent 
does not mean that the solute concentration is 
reduced to zero. The equilibrium nature of 
adsorption is such that as the component con­
centration is reduced, the tendency for fur­
ther adsorption is also reduced and the agent 
becomes increasingly less effective. In most, if 
not all cases of fining, the solute concentration 
is merely lowered to a point at which it re­
mains below a solubility condition (in a stabil­
ity test) or a taste threshold (in a sensory test), 
and at such a concentration it is considered to 
be acceptable. 
The addresses of equipment companies 
mentioned in this chapter can be found in 
Appendix I. 
1. Characterization of Hazes 
The need for fining and/or clarification will 
depend on the nature of the components that 
are responsible for the haze. Some haze parti­
cles can be insolubles such as fine dust, small 
fibers of grape pulp, and yeast or bacteria that 
remain in suspension due to very small settling 
velocities or charge repulsions that prevent 
more compact settling from occurring. Others 
can be partially soluble components that have 
precipitated from solution due to limited solu­
bility at the ethanol content of wine and lower 
temperatures. Examples would be fine tartrate 
crystals and protein and polysaccharide hazes 
or finely dispersed precipitates of large-molec-ular-weight tannin materials that are often 
combined with some proteinaceous compo­
nents. Clarification is generally considered to 
provide insignificant compositional changes 
compared with fining in which compositional 
changes are sought to prevent further precipi­
tation. Fining can also be used to modify Om­
prove) the sensory or stability attributes of 
wines even though existing clarity may not be 
an issue. 
2. Adsorptive Phenomena 
The adsorption equilibrium that is established 
in solution is a reversible distribution of the 
solute between the liquid and solid (or colloid) 
phases. The adsorption equilibrium relation­
ship, often referred to as an adsorption 
isotherm, since the data is obtained at one 
temperature, can usually be quantified by one 
of the following equations, due to Langmuir 
and Freundlich: 
x [S] 
Langmuir: -= (xlm)max * [ [ ]] m KL + S 
x 
Freundlich: -= KF * [S]l/n 
m 
where x is the mass of the solute (or adsor­
bate) on m mass of solid (or adsorbent); and S 
is the equilibrium solute concentration in the 
liquid after the equilibrium is established. It is 
this equilibrium level of the solute that is the 
concentration that will remain in the wine 
after fining. These relationships determine the 
way in which the solute concentration (S) de­
termines the amount of material to be re­
moved (x) for a given addition (m) of the 
fining agent. 
The constants KL and (xlm)max (or KF 
and n) are properties of the adsorption pair, 
and can be determined by plotting double 
reciprocal plots (mix) against (lIS) for the 
Langmuir equation, log-log plots of (xlm) 
against (S) for the Freundlich equation, or by 
using general nonlinear regression methods. While a number of other relationships have 
been developed for the description of adsorp­
tion systems, most of the fining treatments 
used in winemaking can be described by one 
or the other of the simpler equations. 
3. Agents that Obey langmuir's Equation 
The Langmuir relationship readily describes 
the nature of protein adsorption by clays such 
as bentonite, as well as that of ions by ion 
exchange resins. The adsorption curves for a 
standard protein with the sodium and calcium 
forms of bentonite are shown in Figure 7-1. 
The adsorption is analogous to the binding 
and dissociation steps of the Michaelis-Menten 
rate equation for enzyme reactions, except 
that no reaction takes place. In these cases, 
there are a fixed number of adsorption sites 
and once these are filled (or saturated), the 
adsorption per unit of agent reaches its maxi­
mum value, (x/m)max' and the adsorption be­
comes independent of the solute concentra­
tion. At low solute concentrations, the binding 
is proportional to the concentration but the 
adsorption (x/m) is small and much less than 
the maximum. By analogy, the Langmuir con­
stant KL, like the Km of the enzyme relation­
ship, is a measure of the affinity of the solute 
for the adsorbent, a measure of the ability to 
1.00 r-----------------, 
O.BO 
"61 ..... 9 
Q) 0.60 .., 
C 0 .., c 
Q) m ..... 0040 c 
Q) .., e 0 Q. 
0.20 
0.00 _-----"----'----.i....------'-----' 
o 1 00 200 300 400 500 
Protein Concentration (mg/U The Fining and Clarification of Wines 281 
perform close to the saturation level at lower 
concentrations. Like the enzyme case, a larger 
KL value means less affinity of the agent for 
the solute. 
• 
0 
• 
0 The KL values for sodium and calcium 
bentonites with a standard protein (bovine 
serum albumin) have been determined to be 
2.14 and 93.4 mg/L respectively (Blade and 
Boulton 1988). 
4. Agents that Obey Fruendlich's 
Equation 
The Freundlich relationship is entirely empiri­
cal but it effectively describes many of adsorp­
tion systems found in nature. It can be viewed 
as a form of a distribution equation in which 
the concentration on the solid phase (x/m), is 
related to the solution concentration (S) by 
a (I/n)th-order form and the distribution 
coefficient, KF• 
Combinations of agents and solutes which 
show this type of adsorption in wines are the 
phenolics in general (Singleton 1967) and the 
hydroxy-benzoic acids in particular (Mennett 
and Nakayama 1970a) with PVPP as well as 
several classes of phenolics with the proteina­
ceous agents (Wucherpfennig et al. 1975). The 
adsorption of wine color by activated carbon, 
although not usually considered to be a fining 
SodiLm 
SodiLm-
Calcium 
Calcium 
-Sodium 
Calcium 
Fig. 7-1. The Langmuir adsorption 
isotherms for sodium and calcium ben­
tonites. 282 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
treatment, also obeys the Fruendlich equation. 
The adsorption of a number of wine compo­
nents by different fining agents obeys this rela­
tionship as is shown in Figure 7-2. 
The adsorption equilibrium in solutions is 
not strongly sensitive to temperature and when 
well mixed, it is very rapidly established, typi­
cally of the order of seconds or minutes. Ex­
amples of such effects of temperature and 
time on the adsorption of pigments and non­
pigment phenolics from a wine by PVPP have 
been determined (Men nett and Nakayama 
1970b). 
Data for the removal of phenolic dimers 
and polymers by the protein fining agents 
generally follow the Freundlich equation but 
can display deviations from it. In practice, the 
adsorbate is often a mixture, rather than a 
single component, and can exhibit differences 
in the functional groups and molecular sizes 
within a class of components, such as the phe­
nolics. The adsorption from mixtures such as 
wines can therefore demonstrate curves which 
are a composite of the progressive depletion 
of components as the dosage of the agent is 
increased. In instances where tightly adsorbed 
components can freely displace less tightly held 
substances, the composition of individual 
wines, the level of agent used, and the manner 
in which the contacting is performed can greatly affect the outcome. Laboratory trials 
are always recommended to account for such 
variations. 
B. THE FINING AGENTS 
Fining agents can be classified into one of the 
following groups and their common dosage 
ranges are shown in Table 7-1. The groups 
include the proteins (casein, albumen, isin­
glass, and gelatin), the earths (bentonite forms 
and other clays), synthetic polymers with amide 
or pyrridone components (nylon and PVPP), 
and colloidal materials with limited soluble 
residues (natural polysaccharides and ferro­
cyanide preparations and their salts). The level 
that is suitable for any given wine can vary 
from none to those indicated. Some wines will 
have little, if any, need for such treatment 
while grape composition and winemaking 
practices will determine the need in others. 
1. The Proteins 
The purpose of adding a protein preparation 
to wine is to soften or reduce the wine's astrin­
gency or reduce its color by the adsorption 
and precipitation of polymeric phenols and 
tannins. Although it is rarely practiced today, 
10.-------------------------, 
Ftg. 7-2. The Freundlich adsorption 
isotherms of several fining agents. ~ 
6 :;::; 
Q 
~ "0 « 
0.1 ~~~~----~--~~~~~ 
50 100 1000 
EquilibriUTl Concentration (mglL) • Egg 
Albumen 
A Casein 
• pvpp 
'" Skim Milk 
Powder Table 7-1. Typical ranges of application for 
fining agents_ 
Common Range of 
Application (mgjL) 
White Red 
Agent Table Wines Table Wines 
Casein 60 to 120 60 to 240 
Albumen NjA 30 to 240 
Isinglass 10 to 120 30 to 240 
Gelatin 15 to 120 30 to 240 
Bentonite (Na form) 120 to 720 NjA 
Silica Sol 40 to 200 40 to 200 
PVPP 120 to 240 120 to 480 
Agar j Alginate 120 to 480 120 to 480 
Activated Carbon 120 to 600 120 to 600 
white wines can be clarified by adding a pro­
tein followed by a tannin due to the coprecipi­
tation that occurs. All of these proteins come 
from natural sources, usually in a partially 
purified form. The four most commonly used 
proteins for wine applications are casein, 
gelatin, albumen, and isinglass. Their proper­
ties are summarized in Table 7-2. 
Proteins have two aspects to their solubility 
in acid solutions, charge and hydration. All 
proteins have a pH at which they carry no net 
charge in solution, and this is known as the 
isoelectric point, pI. Although most proteins 
are least soluble at their isoelectric point, cer­
tain proteins such as gelatin and ovalbumin 
have significant concentrations in solution 
when brought to their isoelectric point. In 
contrast, other less soluble proteins such as 
casein readily precipitate and have essentially 
Table 7-2. General properties of protein fining agents. The Fining and Clarification of Wines 283 
no residue when brought to their isoelectric 
point, or even in acidic conditions such as 
wine. Ovalbumin and gelatin form stable 
emulsions of neutral particles, while casein 
flocculates when its charge is neutralized. 
Gelatin is a hydrolysis product of ligament, 
skin, or tendon tissue from animals. It is classi­
fied as a collagen derivative and can have a 
broad molecular weight range as a result of 
the source and method of preparation. Casein 
is a mixture of the major proteins precipitated 
by acid from milk, mostly the (l' form with half 
as much of the f3 form and lesser amounts of 
the E and T forms (Jenness 1970). 
Albumen is an egg white mixture of the 
ovalbumin and conalbumin proteins. The 
ovalbumin accounts for 50% of the egg white 
proteins with the conalbumin making up a 
further 15%. Albumen is an albumin, a water­
soluble class of proteins that includes bovine 
serum albumin (BSA). Isinglass is a collagen 
protein from the membranes of the swim 
bladder of sturgeon fish and is thought to 
have similar molecular weight and properties 
to gelatin. It is ordinarily more soluble in cold 
water than some of the gelatin preparations. 
These agents are made up in solutions of 1 
to 5% (depending on the agent) in water, and 
in certain cases, a salt solution (sodium or 
potassium chloride), or at alkaline pH (with 
ammonium hydroxide). Whipping is some­
times used to enhance the dissolution and, by 
physical denaturation, the effectiveness of 
these preparations. 
Protein Source MWrange pI Major amino acids 
Casein 
a Casein 
E: Casein 
{3 Casein 
T Casein 
Albumen 
Ovalbumin 
Conalbumin 
Gelatin 
Isinglass milk 
egg 
animal tissue 
fish 20,30K 
30K 
20K 
24K 
30K 
46K 
87K 
60K 
Unknown 4.55 
4.1 
3.7 
4.5 
5.8,6.0 
4.55,4.90 
6.8,7.1 
4.80,4.85 
4.50,4.80 Glu, Pro, Leu, Lys 
Glu, Leu, Asp, Val, Ser 
Gly, Pro, Hyp, Glu, Arg 
Unknown 284 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
A common feature of all of these proteins is 
that they have isoelectric points close to but 
above the wine pH range (Table 7-2) (Hauro­
witz 1963). This ensures that they will have 
limited solubility in wines and their molecules 
carry an overall positive charge so that any 
excess of added protein can be removed by a 
subsequent bentonite fining. The isoelectric 
point of the protein also has important effects 
on the behavior of the corresponding 
protein-tannin complexes that it will form (Oh 
and Hoff 1987). The tannins efficiently form 
complexes at pH values up to the pI of the 
protein but far less effectively at higher pH 
values. One reason for this is the loss of hydro­
gen bonding if the phenols are in the pheno­
late ion form. 
The principal differences among the pro­
teins are in their molecular weights and their 
composition of amino acids. The amino acid 
composition, in particular the higher propor­
tions of proline and hydroxyproline in 
gelatines, is related to the tendency of water 
exclusion and subsequent clumping behavior. 
There is presently no demonstrated relation­
ship of preference between polymeric phenols 
and the more abundant amino acids found in 
the different protein fining agents. There are 
considerable differences in the interactions of 
phenolic monomers, dimers, and tannins with 
different molecular weight fractions of gelatin 
(Yokotsuka and Singleton 1987). There is little 
difference in the haze formation of fractions 
in the range 2,000 and 70,000 Daltons with 
tannin, but only the smaller 2,000 and 5,000 
Dalton fractions formed significant haze with 
phenolic dimers and none formed hazes with 
the monomeric phenols. 
While there is a common impression that 
all proteins are heat sensitive, it is important 
to note that gelatins (and perhaps isinglass) 
are thermally stable and residues of them will 
generally pass a heat stability test. A further 
important feature of gelatin is that it has es­
sentially no response to the Coomassie Blue 
dye-binding reagent that is often used for the 
assaying of protein content. It is also impor­
tant to note that if excessive gelatin remains after fining, haze may result in the bottle after 
further polymerization of the remaining phe­
nols. 
When corrected for moisture content, these 
proteins have similar adsorption capacities but 
with some differences in terms of their affinity 
for certain subgroups of phenolics. Gelatin, 
casein, and isinglass have capacities for tannin 
in the range 80 to 110 mg per 100 mg protein 
with no significant adsorption of catechin 
(Rossi and Singleton 1966). 
2. The Earths 
Bentonite is widely used for the adsorption of 
proteinaceous materials from wines. See also 
Chapter 8 for a more complete discussion of 
protein stability in white wines. Bentonite was 
originally introduced as a means of clarifying 
wines and vinegars (Saywell 1934a, b) and its 
application to inducing heat stability in white 
wines came several years later. Saywell at­
tributed its action to removing the iron in­
volved in metal protein hazes rather than the 
removal of protein fractions as such. 
Bentonite is a natural clay that is classified 
as a montmorillonite, with a general composi­
tion of the form: Mg, Ca, Na, Al203 • 5 Si0 2 • n 
H20 (Siddiqui 1968). A number of other clays 
that have the silica, alumina matrix with ex­
changeable cations have been considered as 
alternatives to bentonite and these include 
kaolin, Spanish earth. They generally have a 
lower adsorption capacity and therefore are 
not preferred in winemaking applications. 
The source of the bentonite influences its 
properties slightly and the main differences lie 
in the proportions of Mg++, Ca++, and Na+ 
in the lattice. The bentonites from Germany 
and North Mrica, generally used in Europe 
are predominately Ca + + forms which swell 
less in water and have lower protein exchange 
capacity per unit weight. Those from Wyoming, 
generally used in the United States, are Na + 
forms and swell more and have approximately 
twice the protein exchange capacity of the 
Ca ++ forms (Figure 7-1) (Blade and Boulton 
1988). The calcium form has a basal spacing between silica layers of the order of ten A and 
adsorbs proteins primarily on the external sur­
faces. The sodium form expands to give basal 
spacings of hundreds of angstroms and the 
protein adsorption is over the entire surface 
area (Rodriguez et al. 1977). 
Bentonite has a structure which expands 
after contact with water and preparations have 
optimum adsorption after two days of soaking. 
The limited cation exchange capacity of ben­
tonite poses particular problems with the re­
moval of negatively charged and neutral pro­
tein fractions from wines. Bentonite is essen­
tially inert with respect to the phenolic com­
ponents in wine except for cationic antho­
cyanins. The sodium form has approximately 
twice the adsorption capacity of the calcium 
form for the proteins used as fining agents in 
wine (Sudraud and Caye 1985). There have 
been a number of comparative studies of the 
two forms (Rankine and Emerson 1963; Jakob 
1965), but the adsorption per unit of floccu­
lated sediment favors the sodium form. The 
preparation in wine provides slightly less ca­
pacity than the preparation in water (Jakob 
1968) due to the salt strength reducing the 
swelling capacity (Siddiqui 1968). There is lit­
tle effect of temperature on the adsorption 
(Jakob 1968; Blade and Boulton 1988). The 
adsorption was almost three times higher at 
pH 3.0 than at pH 4.5 (Jakob 1968), as might 
be expected from the ionization of the pro­
teins involved. 
The cation exchange mechanism requires 
that the sodium (or calcium) ions from the 
bentonite enter the wine as it takes up the 
proteins in the exchange process. The quanti­
ties of these cation increases can be shown to 
be of the order of 14 mg/L for sodium form, 
based on an addition of 0.960 giL in a water 
solution, a relatively high treatment. The 
pickup associated with an equivalent adsorp­
tion capacity of a calcium form would be 24 
mg/L of calcium. There will also be some 
pickup of other metal cations (such as potas­
sium, magnesium, and trace levels of some 
transition metals) that are present within the 
clay matrix. Recent studies (Postel et al. 1986a, The Fining and Clarification of Wines 285 
1986b, 1987) of the secondary metal pickup 
from several calcium-based bentonite prepara­
tions noted an average increase of 30 p,g/L in 
the lead content of a treated wine when 4 
giL. While this level of bentonite addition is 
almost four times that considered high for the 
corresponding sodium preparation, the same 
study measured much higher increases in 
model solutions. There does not appear to be 
a corresponding survey of the trace metal con­
tent of commercial sodium bentonites. 
Bentonites have also been used as settling 
aids to clarity juices and to lower the levels of 
components other than proteins (Mobius and 
Gortges 1976). They have significant adsorp­
tion capacity for amino acids and other com­
ponents in juices and when added and re­
moved from juice can lead to extended fer­
mentations (Bach and Hoffman 1978). 
Undesirable features of bentonite relate to 
dust generation during its handling as a pow­
der, the poor compaction of its sediment, and 
the widespread use of diatomaceous earth fil­
tration to clarity the wines after treatment. It 
also tends to seal percolation ponds that are 
sometimes used for water treatment and irri­
gation applications. The increasing trend to­
ward minimization of solid waste should focus 
directly upon the development of alternatives 
for bentonite that are adsorptive agents capa­
ble of regeneration and suitable for bed-based 
contacting methods. 
One such development relates to the 
preparation of a silica bead that contains an 
amount of bentonite internally (Welsh and 
Parent 1985; Parent and Welsh 1986). The 
calcium form has been used due to its limited 
swelling capacity and the resulting material 
can be used in an adsorption column. It could 
be regenerated with a calcium solution rather 
than being discarded, and there is no need for 
the filtration step and the subsequent waste 
disposal. As yet, there does not appear to be 
commercial adoption of this approach in 
winemaking. The limited swelling capacity is 
related to a lower internal surface area and 
therefore limited capacity for fining, but this 
would be compensated by the particle-bed ap-286 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
plication, elimination of fining lees, and the 
regeneration features. 
Other approaches to the adsorption of pro­
teins from wines center on the use of immobi­
lized tannin or tannin fractions. The adsorp­
tion is then based primarily on a hydrogen 
bonding rather than charge attraction or ion 
exchange. It would seem to be a more general 
adsorption mechanism and a more desirable 
approach to addressing the more neutral and 
anionic protein fractions. The influence of 
phenol polymer size on the binding and pre­
cipitation of wine proteins has been studied 
for a limited range of conditions (Yokutsuka et 
al. 1983). One of the earliest such approaches 
was the use of immobilized tannin attached to 
activated cellulose for the adsorption of pro­
teins from sake or rice wine (Watanbe et al. 
1979; Chibata et al. 1982, 1986). Similar stud­
ies with grape seed tannin attached to glu­
taraldehyde (Weetall et al. 1984) have not been 
reproducible. Other encouraging applications 
are the immobilization of tannins on 
Sepharose (Oh et al. 1985) and agarose (Powers 
et al. 1988); however, a problem with such 
preparations has been that regeneration with 
alkaline solutions leads to phenol oxidation 
that, in turn, leads to loss of capacity. 
There is considerable scope for the evalua­
tion of either natural product based materials 
or new protein separation materials being used 
and developed for the isolation and recovery 
of proteins and enzymes from other fermenta­
tion and pharmaceutical media. A recent study 
evaluated a number of alternative exchanging 
clays and a synthetic weak cation exchanging 
matrix (trade name of Macroprep) that has an 
adsorption capacity that is about one-quarter 
of that of sodium bentonite and can be regen­
erated for multiple uses and column opera­
tions. 
3. Synthetic Polymers 
Materials such as polyglycine, polyamide 
(nylon), and polyvinyl-polypyrrolidone (PVPP) 
are synthetic products with available carbonyl 
oxygen atoms at the surface that act as adsorp-tion sites. Nylon and PVPP are both insoluble 
white powders that have been used in wine. 
The more efficient adsorption of PVPP has led 
to its preferential use (Caputi and Peterson 
1965; Rossi and Singleton 1966) over nylon 
(Fuller and Berg 1965). The agents are gener­
ally added in a batch treatment and commonl) 
settled or filtered out of the wine and dis­
carded after one use. There have been several 
trials with the use of PVPP in columns during 
the 1980s in California and more recently as 
part of a filter cake (Oechsle and Schneider 
1992). 
The developments in polymer technology 
since the introduction of PVPP and the spec­
trum of related heterocyclics that possess simi­
lar carbonyl components would suggest that 
there should be one or more alternatives to 
these agents and perhaps ones with improved 
selectivity or more easily regenerated surfaces. 
There are applications in other fields in which 
coatings of polymers like PVPP are placed 
onto beads for more desirable buoyancy and 
particle size features, but as yet these have not 
been applied to wine treatments. 
The particular interest in these agents lies 
in their ability to adsorb monomeric phenols 
such as catechins (and other flavonoids) with a 
higher preference than the monomers and 
dimers (Rossi and Singleton 1966), over the 
polymeric compounds which are adsorbed 
more efficiently by the protein fining agents. 
The catechins are involved in the chemical 
browning of white wines and are thought to be 
particularly bitter in nature above their sen­
sory threshold level of 20 mgjL (Singleton 
and Noble 1976). 
4. The Colloids 
a. Natural Polysaccharides 
The polysaccharides, agar and acacia (gum 
arabic), both have protective colloid proper­
ties and can partially neutralize surface charges 
on other naturally dispersed colloids, thereby 
allowing them to either dissolve or to coagu­
late. In the United States the propriety prepa­
ration known as Sparkolloid (either in a hot-mix or cold-mix form) are alginate-based ma­
terials that can aid in the settling of finely 
suspended matter. 
The polysaccharide agents of this kind are 
especially useful in neutralizing the charge of 
other haze components of what are generally 
referred to as protective colloids. In protective 
colloids, one polar or charged entity is ad­
sorbed to the outer surface of another, caus­
ing the overall complex to repel like species 
and causing a suspension to occur. 
In wines and juices natural polysaccharide 
contents are in the range 200 to 1000 mg/L 
(Usseglio-Tomasset 1976; Villettaz 1988; Feuil­
lat 1987; Wucherpfennig and Dietrich 1989) 
and additional ones, principally mannans, are 
formed by yeast during fermentation 
(Llauberes et al. 1987; Feuillat et al. 1988) or 
certain bacterial activity (Llauberes 1990). 
Mannan has been shown to be a major consti­
tutent of yeast cell walls (Bauer et al. 1972), 
and most of its production and release ap­
pears to occur during fermentation. These 
often form combined hazes and protective col­
loids with other wine constituents such as vari­
ous protein and peptide fractions. The action 
of an added polysaccharide with limited solu­
bility is to adsorb away some of these, in effect 
altering the charge neutrality and allowing 
either or both components to redissolve or to 
combine with like material and form a precipi­
tate. 
Unstable colloidal components also tend to 
adhere to suspended particles such as crystals 
of tartrate salts and tannin precipitates. Mate­
rials such as gum arabic and metatartaric acid 
have been used in some regions for the inhibi-The Fining and Clarification of Wines 287 
tion of the crystal growth of tartrates, thereby 
delaying the onset of precipitation in unstable 
wines. The problem with this approach is that 
the inhibition is temporary, often lasting only 
several months and other wine treatments such 
as cold storage and the use of charge-modified 
pad and membrane filters can alter the con­
centrations of these polymeric colloids and 
their stabilizing effects. 
b. Ferrocyanide Preparations 
The application of ferrocyanide salts for the 
removal of transition metal cations from wine 
has been widely practiced in Europe for more 
than 50 years. Sometimes referred to as 
Moslinger fining, after its inventor, the form 
used is potassium ferrocyanide, K4Fe(CN)6' 
The ferrocyanide salts of most metals are blue 
(hence the term blue-fining), sparingly soluble, 
and when used properly, the residue should 
be less than 0.02 mg/L (Wiirdig and Woller 
1989). Table 7-3 provides the aqueous solubil­
ity products of several such salts (Dean 1987) 
and the expected concentration limits of sev­
eral cations in the presence of 0.02 mg/L of 
the ferrocyanide ion. It can be seen that ferro­
cyanide is most effective against iron, less 
so with copper, and of no practical use for 
the removal of manganese, mercury, and lead. 
With silver, it leaves no significant residue 
« 1 p,g/L). 
The use of potassium ferrocyanide in wine 
remains prohibited in the United States and 
instead colloidal forms of it which left lower 
residues were used for many years. The trade 
names of these preparations were Cufex and 
Metafine but they are no longer commercially 
Table 7-3. Solubility products and residues for various ferro cyanide salts. 
Salt Solubility product pKsp Residual (mg/L) 
Cu2[Fe(CN)6] 1.3 X 10- 16 15.89 2.4 
Fe4[Fe(CN)6h 3.3 X 10- 41 40.52 0.8 
Pb2[Fe(CN)6] 3.5 X 10- 15 14.46 39.9 
Ag 4[Fe(CN)6] 1.6 X 10- 41 40.81 0.001 
Mn 2[Fe(CN)6] 8.0 X 10- 13 12.10 163 
The relative concentration of each metal remaining in the presence of 0.02 mgjL of the Fe(CN); ion, based on aqueous 
solubility constants. 288 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
available. The use of these colloidal forms is 
legally approved in the United States but it is 
not used in other wine producing countries. 
The use of potassium ferrocyanide in other 
wine producing countries, even under strict 
supervision, as is required in some cases, re­
mains one of the major regulatory conflicts 
related to wine treatments at the international 
level. When used for metal-depleting applica­
tions, these materials were generally followed 
by a tight pad or membrane filtration for the 
collection of finely suspended residues. Wines 
treated in this way must be analyzed by the 
Hubach test (Ough and Amerine 1988) for the 
detection of any significant ferrocyanide 
residues. 
5. Alternative Methods of Metal 
Depletion 
Elevated metal content can arise from pesti­
cide or copper spray residues (Lay and Lem­
perle 1981; Lay and Leib 1988; Lemperele 
1989) or from additions of copper sulfate to 
remove hydrogen sulfide or mercaptans from 
wines. Typical levels of metals in Californian 
wines have been determined (Ough et al. 
1982), and are presented in Table 8-9. 
The removal of metals could be achieved by 
the use of immobilized forms of ferrocyanide 
or alternatively, other chelating materials. 
There are presently a number of chelating 
resins available commercially, but several of 
them have limited chelating functions at pH 
values less than 4.0. There have been evalua­
tions of wine treatments using a 8-hydroxy­
quinoline ligand attached to styrene-divinyl­
benzene resin (Loubser and Sanderson 1986) 
that was capable of removing relatively high 
levels of iron and copper from several wines. 
The treatment also resulted in significant phe­
nolic and amber color loss in a white wine, but 
the process warrants further development and 
attention. More recently, commercial resins 
with an imidodiacetate functional group linked 
to the same resin matrix have been tested for 
this application (Kern and Wucherpfennig 
1991; Kern et al. 1992). The resin is commer-cially available as Lewatit TP 207 and BioRad 
Chelex 500 and has some difficulty in lowering 
the copper content to a 0.2 mg/L level under 
wine pH conditions. The pKa of acetic acid is 
4.76 and at pH conditions below this the ac­
etate is predominantly undissociated, losing its 
selectivity for the divalent cations. The possi­
bility of alternative but stronger acidic groups 
in the chelating bridge may provide more 
useful materials for this application. 
Alternative polymeric materials based on 
1-vinylpyrrolidone and 1-vinylimidazole have 
also been suggested for the removal of metals 
from wine (Fussnegger et al. 1992). The poly­
mer containing a ratio of the pyrrolidone to 
imidazole of 9: 1 gave the best results, although 
a significant pH rise occurred at treatment 
levels that were required to lower the copper 
content to below 0.2 mg/L, the level generally 
considered to be acceptable. 
6. Activated Carbon 
The activated carbons have high and broad 
affinities particularly for benzenoid and non­
polar substances. They are used to remove 
color pigments and a wide range of phenolics 
but are rather nonselective in their adsorption 
(Singleton 1964). They do not adsorb sub­
stances such as sugars and amino acids which 
are highly water soluble. They are not gener­
ally used and offer no benefits to most wines. 
They adsorb a range of other trace con­
stituents including some vitamins and this 
could have secondary effects on microbiologi­
cal stability. The carbons are usually sold as 
either decolorizing or deodorizing forms. The 
treatment levels are determined by a dose­
response trial on the wine in question with the 
specific carbon. 
7. Silica Suspensions 
Silica suspensions, or sols, are most often used 
in clarification and settling applications, par­
ticularly with apple and fruit wines. In such 
cases, the silica sol preparation is used in con­
junction with gelatin in proportions which vary 
with the loading and wine concerned (Wucherpfennig and Possmann 1972; 
Wucherpfennig et al. 1975). They have partic­
ular applications to peptide tannin hazes. The 
clearest explanation for the mechanism of ac­
tion is that gelatin and tannin precipitate each 
other and silica prevents an excess of gelatin. 
The treatment limit in the United States is 
2.4 giL of a 30% by weight silica solution. 
8. Copper Sulfate 
Copper sulfate is used to remove H2S and 
thiols from wines and the level of addition 
should be less than 0.5 mg/L. Traces of a 
brown/black precipitate of CuS can be 
formed, but is often not observed. The resid­
ual of copper should be less than 0.5 mg/L in 
the United States and 0.2 mg/L in most other 
countries. This removal of copper is due to 
the limited solubility of the CuS salt and not 
an adsorption mechanism. An excess of cop­
per should be avoided to satisfy legal limits, to 
minimize catalysis of oxidation reactions and 
to avoid precipitation of complexes with pro­
teins. Copper treatments such as this will not 
remove dimethyl sulfide (DMS) from wines. 
Copper sulfate can be used in conjunction 
with a sulfite/ascorbate addition to remove 
disulfides from wines. The kinetics of this re­
action have been studied recently (Bobet et al. 
1990) and it is extremely slow under wine pH 
conditions, typically requiring months at 20°C 
rather than minutes or hours. The reaction is 
rapid enough (within two months) to be useful 
for a laboratory diagnosis. The role of the 
sulfite is to cleave the disulfide, forming a 
Bunte salt intermediate and eventually pro­
ducing two thiols in the process. The role of 
the ascorbate seems to be that of trapping for 
oxygen thereby preventing the reoxidation of 
the thiol to the disulfide. The presence of 
copper ions at this time is to ensure the imme­
diate precipitation of the thiol as it forms. 
Copper sulfate is preferable to the silver 
salts, as used in parts of Europe, because it 
does not appear to form chloride and tartrate 
precipitates under wine conditions and is less 
toxic than silver residues. The solubility prod-The Fining and Clarification of Wines 289 
uct for CuS is 4 X 10-36 at 25°C in water, while 
that for AgS is 6 X 10-5°, however, at wine pH 
only a trace of any hydrogen sulfide is in the 
sulfide ion form so that significant additions 
(> 0.1 mg/L) are needed to have an effect. 
C. WINE CLARIFICATION 
1. Natural Settling 
The simplest form of clarification is the natu­
ral settling of suspended solids under the ac­
tion of gravity. The time required to com­
pletely clarify a juice is the time taken for the 
smallest particles to fall through the height of 
the tank. In practice, there is a range of parti­
cle sizes and the extent and time of settling 
will depend on a number of other factors such 
as the interactions between particles as their 
concentration increases and the presence of 
any natural convection currents or bubbles 
rising from the onset of fermentation within 
the tank. Studies of suspended particles in 
beer indicate average particle diameters of 2 
to 4 ILm, with some as large as 16 and 20 ILm 
(Morris 1984). 
The rate at which particles that are denser 
than the juice (or wine) settle depends on the 
density difference between the particle and 
the fluid, (pp -Pj)' the particle diameter, and 
the viscosity of the fluid. Particles will rapidly 
accelerate until they reach a steady falling 
speed known as the terminal velocity. The 
relationship between the terminal velocity and 
the fluid and particle properties for a sphere is 
given by Stokes' Law: 
where Dp is the particle diameter; Pp and Pj 
are the density of the particle and fluid, re­
spectively; and IL is the fluid viscosity. This 
assumes that there are laminar flow condi­
tions, that is, the particle Reynold's number, 
Dp~Pj/1L is less than 0.1 and this is true for 
grape fragments smaller than 500 ILm in size. 290 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
The particles of grape pulp which are gen­
erally the solids of interest in juices have den­
sities close to that of the juice, making their 
terminal velocities relatively small and requir­
ing considerable time to fall the height. As the 
fermentation proceeds, the juice density falls 
and the density difference increases signifi­
cantly. Based on a density difference of 100 
kg/m 3, typical of grape pulp in a juice, the 
settling times of particles of 20-, 50-, 100-JLm 
diameters to fall through 1m are approxi­
mately 6 hours, 1 hour, and 14 minutes, re­
spectively. The density difference for the same 
solids following fermentation is 110 kg/m3 
and the viscosity is less than one-half of that of 
the juice. The settling times for the corre­
sponding particles to fall through 1m are then 
4.2 hours, 40 minutes, and 10 minutes, respec­
tively. 
The estimation of the natural settling time 
for a medium like juice or wine is influenced 
by the size distribution of the particles and the 
existence of at least three different mecha­
nisms of settling within the tank. These are the 
laminar settling of independent particles, the 
hindered settling within dense layers of parti­
cles and the compaction of heavy solids layers. 
The settling is also dramatically altered in the 
presence of bubble formation and thermal 
convection currents. 
Perhaps the largest effect that influences 
natural settling is the interaction of particles as 
they come into closer proximity with others as 
they move toward the lower regions of the 
tank. This effect is referred to as hindered 
settling and is due to interferences in the fluid 
movement around them and the force of re­
pulsion of particles of like charge can counter­
balance the settling force due to gravity. This 
leads to a retardation of the settling velocity 
and results in a significant volume of unsettled 
juice. The solids layers that have collected at 
the base of the tank also undergo much slower 
compaction and this is influenced by the na­
ture of the solids. A major influence on the 
magnitude of these interparticle forces is the 
presence of colloidal polymers such as polysac­
charides and proteins which are carrying a slight positive charge at juice pH. This is the 
main reason for the wide variation in the 
settling ability of different juices and the rea­
son that the application of hydrolytic enzymes 
can have a dramatic clarifying in some juices. 
2. Settling Aids 
The use of bentonite in juices as a settling aid, 
while still practiced in some areas, is not rec­
ommended since it will only benefit juices in 
which there is a significant interference due to 
proteinaceous colloids and in some cases it 
can actually cause the problem to be magni­
fied. In the absence of colloidal effects, the 
mechanical effect of a more dense particle 
suspension falling about the pulp will gener­
ally promote the settling and provide a more 
compact lees volume although variation in the 
extent of this exists (Wagener 1970). The na­
ture of bentonite in acidic pH solutions and 
the presence of a significant amount of very 
fine dust in most preparations generally leads 
to little enhancement in the density of the 
lees. 
Alternative agents that has been used in 
many juices are preparations of silica suspen­
sions commonly referred to as silica sols. These 
can be used alone or in conjunction with 
gelatin to promote the mechanical settling ac­
tion by falling faster than many of the fine 
particles and dragging them along. However, 
the additional volume of lees often offsets the 
benefit. There are expected to be some ad­
sorption and colloidal effects with this treat­
ment but these have not been well character­
ized in grape juices (Wucherpfennig et al. 
1975). 
The most immediate alternative to natural 
settling is the use of centrifugal effects to 
increase the settling force from one to several 
hundred or a thousand times that of gravity. 
Such forces greatly increase the effective ter­
minal velocity and decrease the separation 
time required. These forces also overwhelm 
the hindered settling effects observed that are 
so obvious under gravity settling conditions, 
providing a more consistent clarifying effect even when such particle interactions are pre­
sent. Furthermore, the distance for the parti­
cles to travel is greatly reduced by the design 
of the equipment. 
The most widely used form of clarification 
by centrifugal action are the desludging and 
decanting centrifuges. Another less common 
approach is the use of hydrocyclones for the 
partial removal of the larger suspended parti­
cles from juices and wines. 
3. Desludging Centrifuges 
The centrifuge consists of a stack of truncated 
cones which are mounted in the center on a 
spindle (Figure 7-3). The spindle is hollow and 
allows the feed stream to enter from the top 
and then to be distributed at the base of the 
centrifuge bowl. The entire bowl, outer wall, 
and disc stack are rotated at high speeds pro­
ducing outward radial forces on particles of 
> 10,000 times that of gravity. The stream that 
is distributed at the base is then forced up 
between the discs leaving the unit at the top of 
the conical section. The particles are collected 
on the underside of each disc as they are spun 
out while the fluid moves between the discs. 
The particles then collect at the outer wall of 
the bowl and when the bowl becomes full the 
solids begin to appear in the outlet stream. 
The accumulated solids are removed in an 
operation known as desludging. 
a. Oesludging Operations 
The desludging is usually triggered by an opti­
cal sensor in the outlet stream which detects 
the overflow of solids when the bowl is full. 
The inflow is stopped while the bowl contin­
ues to spin and the base section of the bowl 
chamber drops down, allowing a series of holes 
or ports in the circumference to open. The 
solids in the bowl (and the associated juice or 
wine) are then forced through these ports by 
the radial centrifugal reaction, being collected 
in an outer chamber. The base section is then 
repositioned so that the ports no longer have 
an open channel and the flow and operation 
are allowed to resume. Such an operation is 
referred to as a total de sludge because the The Fining and Clarification of Wines 291 
entire contents of the bowl are ejected. With 
the use of interval timers or manual operation, 
a more efficient desludging in which less juice 
(or wine) is lost can be performed. In this 
partial de sludge operation the base section of 
the bowl is allowed to remain in the down 
position for a shorter time so that only about 
one-half of the bowl contents are ejected (typi­
cally most of the solids and little of the juice or 
wine). 
b. Solids Ejection Rates 
The rate at which the desludging centrifuge 
can eject the solids is determined by the num­
ber and size of the desludging ports and the 
frequency of desludging. The frequency of 
desludging is determined by the flow rate at 
which the solids are entering the unit. This is 
equal to the volumetric flow rate times the 
fraction of the feed which is due to solids 
(% v Iv). The throughput of the centrifuge is 
dependent on the liquid fraction of the feed 
stream times the flow rate and the fraction of 
the time which the unit is not desludging. The 
largest commercial centrifuge of this type (the 
Westphalia SA160) has a solids ejection capac­
ity of 4500 L of solids per hour and a liquid 
throughput of approximately 120,000 L/hr. 
The throughput of these centrifuges is re­
duced inversely as the solids content of the 
feed stream is increased and the performance 
of these units is not favored at high (> 4 to 
5% v Iv) solids contents. This is why they are 
seldom used for the clarification of juices prior 
to fermentation. 
c. Residence Times 
The residence time during which the particles 
are under the influence of the super gravity 
force is of the order of seconds. This is deter­
mined by the bowl volume divided by the 
volumetric flow rate. A typical value would be 
25 L divided by 60,000 L/hr, giving an aver­
age residence time of 1.5 seconds. 
d. Manufacturers 
The two main manufacturers of desludging 
centrifuges for the wine industry at present 292 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
Fig. 7-3. A disc centrifuge. 1 Feed 
2 Discs 
3 Centripel4l pump 
4 Di$charge 
5 Sediment holding space 
6 Sediment ejection pons 
7 Tim ill& unil 
8 OUler closing chamber 
9 Inner closing chamber 
10 Opening chamber (a) 
(b) II Bowl valve 
12 Piston 
13 Openil18 waler 
14 Closing water 
IS Sensing zone disc 
16 Sensing liquid clarirying discs 
17 Sensing ~Quid pump 
18 Aowmeler 
19 Sensing liquid pump 
20 Switch are Westphalia and Alfa-Laval. The vast major­
ity of installed systems in the United States are 
Westphalia centrifuges. This company has sev­
eral sizes of centrifuges which are generally 
designated by the initials SA or SB and a bowl 
diameter in centimeters, such as SB 80 or SA 
160. Typical capacities for these units for juice 
and wines are presented in Table 7-4. 
4. Decanting Centrifuges 
Decanting centrifuges are a relatively recent 
(within the last 15 years) introduction to wine­
making. They have been successfully applied 
to the clarification of juices prior to fermenta­
tion because their capacity (unlike that of the 
desludging machines) is essentially indepen­
dent of the suspended solids content in the 
inlet stream. 
The decanting centrifuge has a cylindrical 
shell with a long conical end which contains a 
similarly shaped large-pitch screw (or auger) 
(Figure 7-4). The separating force is generated 
by both of these rotating about a horizontal 
axis, in the same direction, at several hundred 
revolutions per minute, producing a radial 
force which is a few hundred times that of 
gravity. The feed stream is introduced through 
the hollow center of the screw and enters the 
middle of the cylindrical section. Both the 
liquid and the solids are spun to the wall with 
Table 7-4. Typical capacities for desludging centrifuges. 
Juice (feed 3 to 10% vlv, 
discharge 0.8 to 2% v Iv) 
SA 160 65,000 
SA 80/SB 80 25,000 
SA 60/SB 60 19,000 
SA 45 14,000 
Racked wine (feed 1 % v Iv, 
discharge 0.01 % v Iv) 
SA 160 115,000 
SA 80/SB 80 45,000 
SA 60/SB 60 31,000 
SA 45 22,000 
Clarified wine (feed 0.15 to 0.2 % vlv, 
discharge < 0.002% 
SA 160 
SA80/SB 80 
SA60/SB 60 
SA 45 55,000 
22,000 
15,000 
11,000 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 293 
the solids lining the wall. The screw is rotating 
at a few revolutions per minute faster than the 
wall, and thereby produces a scraping action 
on the solids, conveying them into the liquid 
layer and are discharged continuously as a soft 
paste. The clarified liquid leaves continuously 
through ports in the other end. The control of 
the solids removal rate is performed by chang­
ing the differential rotational speed of the 
screw with respect to the outer wall. As a 
result, the liquid throughput is essentially in­
dependent of the level of solids in the feed 
and the capacity is only slightly affected by 
solids contents as high as 12 to 20% v/v. The 
liquid discharge stream may be further clari­
fied since typical solids contents of this stream 
can be above that desired for white wine fer­
mentations. 
a. Residence Times 
The liquid residence times in these units, that 
is the annular liquid volume divided by the 
volumetric flow rate, can be of the order of 10 
to 15 seconds, much longer than for the 
desludging centrifuges. 
b. Manufacturers 
The major supplier of decanting centrifuges to 
the wine industry at present is Westphalia al­
though Alfa-Laval, DDS, Dorr-Oliver, and Bird 
Machine Company have also tested units for 
juice and wine applications. The performance 
of some of the Westphalia decanters (feed 
25% v lv, discharge 2 to 5% v Iv) is given in 
Table 7-5. 
D. WINE FILTRATION 
Filtration as applied to winemaking is a very 
general operation which encompasses a wide 
range of conditions from the partial removal 
of large suspended solids (approximately 50 to 
200 p,m in diameter, grape pulp, bitartrate 
crystals, or some of the yeast) by various grades 
of diatomaceous earth or filter sheets to the 
complete retention of microbes (approxi­
mately 0.5- to 1.5-p,m diameter) by perpendic­
ular flow polymeric membranes. The terms 294 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
123 4 5 
I V-belt pulley (c:onVl:yor scn:w dri.e) 
2 Cyclo Gear 
3 V·belt pulley (bowl drive) 
4 Main bowl bearing 
5 Housing 
6 Conveyor screw 
7 Separation chamber 
8 Distributor 
Fig. 7-4. A scroll centrifuge. 6 
9 Bowl (a) 
789 
10 Regulating ring 
II Main bowl bearing 
12 Feed 
13 Solids discharge 
14 Cillrilied liquid discharge 
15 Centripetal pump 
(b ) 1015 11 
12 
rough, polish, tight, or sterile will often be used 
to distinguish the openness (or the porosity) of 
the filter medium. This openness determines 
the minimum size of the solids that are col­
lected from the juice or wine and it also af-fects the resistance to flow and therefore the 
throughput of a filter unit. 
The following sections will deal with per­
pendicular flow arrangements which are in 
common use in the wine industry. With per-Table 7-5. Performance of Westphalia decanters. 
Maximum capacity 
Model/type (L/hr) 
CA220 2000 
CA225 2800 
CA360 5000 
CA365 7000 
CA650 20,000 
CA655 25,000 
pendicular flow there is ordinarily a point at 
which fine particles blind the filter and pres­
sure increases while the flow rate falls. An 
objective of cross-flow is to sweep the surface 
clean of such blinding solids. It is easy to see 
why perpendicular filtration must be done in 
stages so that the coarser solids are removed 
first so that the finer filters are not over­
loaded. Section 4 of this chapter will address 
the application of cross-flow filters which range 
from the sterile filtration of juices and wines to 
the removal of solutes such as proteins (in 
ultrafiltration or UF) or the modification of 
composition such as ethanol removal (in re­
verse osmosis or RO). 
Filters can be classified according to their 
porosity, the nature of the filter medium, the 
method of housing the filter medium or the 
arrangement of the fluid flow path. Examples 
would be rough versus sterile, pad versus di­
atomaceous earth, plate and frame versus 
pressure leaf, and perpendicular flow versus 
cross-flow. In this section, the emphasis will be 
on the nature of the equipment and its opera­
tion and therefore filters will be divided into 
plate and frame, pressure leaf, cartridge, and 
traditional membrane (meaning perpendicu­
lar flow, synthetic polymer membranes). 
While the principal means of particle col­
lections will be the size of the pores or flow 
channels through which the wine travels, there 
are secondary effects due to a charge-based 
collection mechanism due to the zeta poten­
tial. The zeta potential is caused by the un­
equal distribution of charges on the surface of 
certain particles and fibers when a fluid flows 
around them. During flow past such materials, 
a potential gradient develops between the The Fining and Clarification of Wines 295 
boundary layers of the fluid and parts of the 
solids surface. Small, charged, solid, or col­
loidal particles will be attracted and usually 
captured as the fluid passes over the surface, 
and a more extensive clarification will be 
achieved than that due to the pore size alone. 
In the past, the use of asbestos as a compo­
nent in filter sheets provided this effect, but 
today a number of cellulose-based fibers which 
have similar properties are used in filter pads, 
cartridges, and precoat preparations. The im­
portant features of the zeta-potential mecha­
nism are that it is finite, consumable, and 
flow-rate-dependent. This means that as the 
charged particles are collected, they progres­
sively neutralize the potential; and if the flow 
rate falls or drops to zero, some of the cap­
tured material will be released into the sur­
rounding fluid. This is especially true if the 
flow is stopped then restarted, and is most 
troublesome during filtrations that are up­
stream of a membrane filter or bottling line. 
This is also one of the reasons that recom­
mended flow rates are given by manufacturers 
of pad filters. 
The zeta-potential is also pH-dependent as 
shown in Figure 7-5, and thus the practice of 
rinsing pads with hot water provides the con­
ditions under which the fibers release cap­
tured particles due to this mechanism. The 
potential is always positive under wine condi­
tions and the attraction is greatest for anionic 
colloidal particles, such as some fractions of 
proteins and polysaccharides and their com­
plexes. This action is not always desirable since 
physical stabilities associated with protective 
colloids and haze-protecting factors (Waters et 
al. 1993) may be disturbed by such filtrations. 
In contrast, the zeta potential of diatomaceous 
earth is always negative under wine conditions 
(Figure 7-5), and this is why it (and pads con­
taining it) exhibit quite different interactions 
with such colloids. 
1. Diatomaceous Earth Filters 
Diatomaceous earth (or Kieselgur) (brand 
names ego Celite, Diatomite, and Dicalite) is 296 The Fining and Clan fication of Wines 
60 
40 
~ 20 
"iii 0 :;::; 
~ .... 
8. -20 
III .... -40 OJ N 
-60 
-80 
0 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Medium pH 
Fig. 7-5. The effect of pH on the 
zeta-potential of filter media. o SynthetiC 
Fiber • Diatomaceous 
Earth 
used to provide structural support in a devel­
oping filter cake so that compressible solids do 
not form a tight film across the filter surface, 
thereby reducing the filtration rate eventually 
to zero. The continual addition of diatoma­
ceous earth during the filtration, referred to 
as body feed, continues to build a porous cake 
as the filtration progresses. Even with the use 
of filter aids, most filters will eventually plug 
due to the collection of fine particles within 
the filter cake or their blinding of the support­
ing precoat, paper, or septum. 
The quantity and the particle size of the 
filter aid should be related to the size and 
quantity of the solids being removed. The use 
of too fine of a grade of diatomaceous earth 
provides little additional clarity but rather 
more cake resistance and a lower flow rate. 
The commercial grades of diatomaceous earth 
used for wine filtrations have median particle 
sizes between 14.0 /Lm in Celite 500 and 36.2 
/Lm in Celite 545. The first of these powders 
can be used in place of tight pads prior to a 
membrane filtration while the second would 
be a coarse filtration of juice or following 
fermentation. Further variations involve the 
acid calcining (pink) fine grades or the coarser 
alkaline (white) grades. It is particle size distribution rather than 
the median size of the powder that has most to 
do with the capturing capability and flow resis­
tance of the cake. The cumulative size distri­
butions for the more commonly used grades 
of diatomaceous earth are shown in Figure 
7-6. The appearance of several grades of filter 
aids is shown in Figure 7-7. The relationship 
between the median pore size and permeabil­
ity of various grades of the Celite filter aids is 
shown in Figure 7-8. 
At wine and juice pH values, diatomaceous 
earth has a relatively large negative surface 
charge (Figure 7-5). As a result, nitrogenous 
compounds such as ammonia and cationic 
amino acids and proteins might be expected 
to be partially adsorbed to the surface, and 
this has been shown experimentally (Tercelj 
1965). Diatomaceous earth is a very weak ad­
sorbent and these results were obtained in 
laboratory conditions with unusually high 
quantities of filter aid in proportion to wine. 
In practice, the pre coat and cake will be 
quickly saturated by contact with the first vol­
umes of wine through the filter. Once satu­
rated, they are unable to contribute to further 
adsorption of wine components. The propor­
tion of diatomaceous earth that a wine is con-The Fining and Clarification of Wines 297 
100 
~ 
~ 80 
(jj 
c 
~ 60 I-
~ m & 40 
.., c 
ClJ U 20 
Q; 
Q. 
Particle Size (lST1) 
• Hig, Flow .l &.per eel • 545 Fig. 7·6. The cumulative size distri­
bution of three filter aids. 
tacted with will be influenced by the solids 
loading and the number of filtrations per­
formed. In order to eliminate any undesirable 
filter aid flavors, the filter is usually rinsed with 
an acidic solution and/or a small portion of 
the wine, which is then discarded. 
a. Pressure Leaf Filters 
Pressure leaf filters use a screen to provide the 
support of the diatomaceous earth cake dur­
ing the filtration. The leaf is the supporting 
element which holds the screen and provides 
the path for the filtrate into the outlet mani­
fold (Figure 7-9). The leaves are generally 
square in shape, although circular units are 
also made. The leaves are completely im­
mersed and surrounded by the juice or wine 
that is being filtered. They can be placed 
vertically in upright cylinders, vertically in lon­
gitudinal cylinders, or horizontally in vertical 
cylinders. The difference is due to manufac­
turer's preference rather than superior filtra­
tion performance. 
Pressure leaf filtration can be used from the 
rough filtration of tank settlings through to 
the prefiltration of wines for membrane filtra­
tion. This is achieved by the use of successively 
finer grades of diatomaceous earth and it is practiced by several large and medium-size 
wineries. 
b. Precoating 
The screens of a pressure leaf unit are usually 
precoated prior to the introduction of the 
juice or wine. This is done to provide clarity in 
the first filtrate, to protect the screen or sep­
tum, and to facilitate the removal of the spent 
cake. This is done by filtering a volume of 
slurry containing the 0.5 to 1.0 kg diatoma­
ceous earth per square meter, to provide the 
desired thickness of precoat (typically 1 to 2 
mm), on the screens. The concentration of the 
slurry should be at least 3 kg/L and up to 6 
kg/L. The application flow rate should be 
controlled so as to provide a flux of 2500 to 
5000 L/ m 2 /h. This will often result in a pres­
sure drop across the filter of approximately 
15 kPa. 
The pre coat grade is usually a finer grade 
than that to be used for the body feed during 
the filtration. The exception to this is for the 
use of coarse grades when the same grade is 
often used for precoat and body feed. The 
trend has been to use cellulose fiber prepara­
tions (Berg et al. 1986) in 0.5: I proportions 
fiber to diatomaceous earth in the precoat 298 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
Fig. 7-7. Scanning electron micrographs of 
several grades of diatomaceous earth. 
100.--------------------------------r--------. 
Fig. 7-8. The relationship between 
mean pore size and the flow rate of 
several filter aids. Iii a. 
~ .... d 
~ 
n! (( 
~ 0 
u:: 
m .... 
~ 10 
• 
0.1 ~--~~~~~~--~~~~~~--~~~~~ 
0.1 10 100 
Mean Pore Size (LITI) Fig. 7-9. A pressure leaf filter. 
mixture to provide a zeta-potential collection 
mechanism for very fine particles. 
c. Operation 
Once the precoat has been applied, the wine 
or juice can be introduced into the filter 
chamber. In order for the cake to remain 
permeable during the run, new diatomaceous 
earth, referred to as body feed, is introduced 
into the filter together with the wine. This is 
achieved by metering in proportions of the 
slurry from the slurry tank. The rate of addi­
tion of the slurry will be determined by the 
concentration of suspended solids in the feed 
stream. The loading rate can vary from 1: 1 
diatomaceous earth to solids, for crystalline 
solids to 5:1 or more for compressible solids. 
Since this may vary throughout the run, it will 
be necessary for an operator to monitor the 
progress of the filtration. When the cake has 
grown so large that it fills the space between 
the adjacent leaves, the resistance will increase 
rapidly and the run will have to be terminated. 
The wine will be drained from the filter hous­
ing and the screens cleaned before the pre­
coat cycle begins again. The Fining and Clarification oj Wines 299 
Some units are built so that the screens can 
be exposed for cleaning while other designs 
provide a shaking mechanism or water sprays 
to free the cake from the screens. Most de­
signs provide a pan for the collection of the 
dislodged cake. 
d. Manufacturers 
The most common types of pressure leaf filters 
are those made by Velo, Padovan, Seitz, 
Schenk, Durco, and Gasquet. The units can 
vary from small, 2.0-m2 area, units to larger 
units with several hundred times this area. 
Almost all of the units used in the U.S. indus­
try are made of stainless steel for both the 
screens and the housing. The major producers 
of diatomaceous earth filter aids are Manville 
(Celite), Eagle-Picher (Celatom), and Great 
Lakes Carbon (Dicalite). 
2. Pad Filters 
A simpler approach to filtration that does not 
require the use of pre coats and body feed is 
the application of preformed sheets or pads of 
cellulose and diatomaceous earth. These fil-300 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
trations are considerably more expensive than 
pressure leaf filtrations, but the ease of use has 
made them widespread among small and 
medium-sized wineries. Many wineries will em­
ploy pressure leaf filtrations prior to bottling, 
but then prefer to have a final pad filtration in 
conjunction with membrane filtration and 
bottling. 
a. Sheet or Pad Filtrations 
Filter pads are designed to collect particles in 
their interior rather than to develop a cake at 
the surface. They are constructed of cellulose 
fibers with particles of diatomaceous earth 
trapped in between. They are usually classified 
by their capacity for water flow and most man­
ufacturers offer pads with capacities ranging 
from 1200 Ljm 2jhr for nominally sterile fil­
trations to 240,000 Ljm 2jhr for coarse, clari­
fying filtrations. Although an equivalent (or 
average) pore size can be estimated from the 
water flow tests, it should be understood that, 
like the diatomaceous earth filter cakes, a 
range of pore sizes actually exists in the pad. 
Up until the mid 1970s, tight pads containing 
asbestos fibers were used to remove proteins 
and other colloids and microorganisms from 
wines due to the zeta-potential mechanism. 
This permitted fine negatively charged parti­
cles to be captured in the pad when they 
would normally pass right through, based on 
porosity considerations. At present a range of 
cellulose acetate and other polymeric fibers 
are used in what are referred to as charge­
modified or zeta-enhanced filter pads. 
b. Plate-and-Frame Filters 
Plate-and-frame filters can be used in one of 
two general ways. The first and more common 
way is for filter pads (or sheets) to be used as 
the filtration medium, while the second is for 
a paper and a cake of diatomaceous earth to 
be the medium. 
The name comes from the use of alternat­
ing support plates to retain the filter medium 
and to collect the filtrate interspaced with 
frames which distribute the incoming fluid 
across the filter medium. The units are set up with multiple plates and frames (Figure 7-10), 
and each plate (or frame) is fed by (or feeds) a 
common manifold which provides access ports 
to all other plates (or frames). Anyone por­
tion of the wine only passes through the filter 
once and capacity is increased by adding more 
plate-and-frame pairs. 
The plates and frames are generally square 
in shape and hang from two supporting bars 
at each side of the filter stack. The liquid seal 
is made by the compression of the plates and 
frames between a capstan at one end and the 
end plate at the other. The number of plates 
(and frames) that are used determines the 
filter area and the number may be adjusted 
for the particular filtration run. 
The degree of clarification is determined by 
the grade of the diatomaceous earth or pad 
which is used. For rough filtrations, fluxes of 
2000 to 4000 Ljhrjm2 are typical, while with 
finer media this can fall to 800 to 2,000 
Ljhrjm2 at pressure drops of 100 to 200 kPa. 
C. Flow Pattern 
The feed stream enters the end plate and is 
divided into two streams, an upper channel 
and a lower channel, which will feed all of the 
frames from one side. The frames are de­
signed so that on one side the ports are open 
to allow the feed to enter, while on the other 
side, the ports allow fluid to pass from one 
neighboring plate to the other without enter­
ing the frame itself. The plates have a similar 
arrangement so that they can collect filtrate 
and direct it to the outlet ports (top and 
bottom) on the opposite side of the filter unit. 
The feed stream moves from the end plate 
into the first frame from the top and bottom 
corner ports. The majority of the feed contin­
ues on along the channel made by the succes­
sive ports, passing through the port but not 
entering each of the plates. The feed will be 
able to enter each of the frames from this side. 
Once in the frame, the flow direction will 
change, moving through the medium and into 
the receiving plate. The flow then changes as 
it is directed to the outlet ports of the plate. 
The filtrate then passes through the port of .. 13 
I. 
II 
Fig. 7-10. A plate and frame filter. 
each frame onto the next plate where it com­
bines with the flow from that plate. At the end 
plate, the top and bottom filtrate streams are 
combined, leaving the filter as a single stream. 
The net effect is that each portion of the wine 
passes through one small part of the whole 
stack. 
There are usually pressure gauges mounted 
on the front end plate to indicate the pressure 
of each stream so that the pressure drop across 
the filter (which indicates the resistance to 
flow) can be calculated. 
d. Mode of Operation 
The application with pads involves the setting 
up of the filter with only the plates, alternating The Fining and Clarification of Wines 301 
, :st.tlOftalY 1iI1., COYer f ttl. eov.t, 
2' flu.,pla* 
3 Mow" hn., cover 
.. V.,..lvahin 
$ Venl ve," (.aIM) ,tum COI"IMICUon) 
• Vent rtlh'e (al.o p' ...... r. gatlC.OMec:honJ 
7 kppon rodt 
'FII1ef~ , Tigll""no ~.c". 
10~"'~laOI'~O"'" 
11 Ota'n ...... 
12 PtalbC collecllnO tray 
13 SJgI\t 0 ...... 'WIth ,"",I v.~ end 
glre-IM fiJre<ll preaYI. oa~ 
14 rMCII,... 
" kmph"9 vatw 
" InlMcl Ch.llet ~Iet) 
17 D.lC::MfVO- ( *' oudeC) 
them so that every second one is a distributing 
or feed plate while the other is a receiving or 
collection plate . The pads are placed so that 
the wavy, rippled surface will face the dis­
tributing plate (or incoming wine) and the 
mesh pattern side will be against the collecting 
plate. The air is displaced from the fluid mani­
fold by use of the sampling valves, and the 
filtration continues until the pressure differ­
ence across the filter exceeds the recom­
mended value or the filtration is completed. 
When diatomaceous earth is used, a slurry 
of the earth is filtered to develop a thin pre­
coat layer of the earth on the surface of each 
plate. The earth is retained by a filter paper or 
a plastic mesh which covers the plate, or a 302 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
finer grade of filter pad. During the actual 
filtration a small flow of the diatomaceous 
earth slurry (referred to as the body feed) is 
fed to the filter along with the wine. A di­
atomaceous earth cake builds up on each plate 
surface, incorporating the suspended solids 
which are being collected into it. A more 
detailed description of the proportions of di­
atomaceous earth and flow conditions to be 
used for precoating and operation is given in 
Sections I.b and I.c above. 
As the filtration progresses, the resistance 
builds up due to the accumulation of solids 
and the increase in cake thickness, and the 
flow will decline in a manner that depends on 
the type of pump which is being used. The 
run will be terminated when the frames be­
come filled with the cake, when the flow falls 
to an unacceptable rate, when the inlet pres­
sure rises to an unacceptable value, or the 
filtration is complete. 
e. Manufacturers 
The most common types of plate and frame 
filters in U.S. wineries are made by Seitz and 
Schenk. The main suppliers of pads and filter 
sheets to the wine industry are Scott (Seitz), 
Cellulo, and KLR (Be co). 
3. Cartridge and Membrane Filters 
Traditional membrane filters are the perpen­
dicular flow membranes used for the sterile 
filtration of wines just prior to bottling. The 
filter cartridges (Figure 7-11), are made of a 
synthetic polymer (such as polycarbonate, 
polysulfone, or polypropylene) with pore sizes 
of 0.45, 0.65, 0.80, or 1.2 /-Lm. They are called 
membrane filters since they collect particles at 
surface pores rather than within the torturous 
path in the body of the pad filters. They have 
a closely controlled range of pore size, unlike 
diatomaceous earth and pad filters. The mem­
branes are rated based on the size of the 
largest pore rather than the average or effec­
tive pore size that is determined from flow 
conditions. Fig.7-11. A typical membrane filter housing. 
The size of the largest pore is crucial for 
the complete removal of microorganisms by 
filtration and methods have been developed in 
which filter cartridges are tested to determine 
this value. The ability to release a bubble from 
a pore into a surrounding liquid is determined 
by the circumference of the pore, the surface 
tension of the fluid and the differential pres­
sure between the gas behind the bubble and 
the fluid facing it. The pressure at which the 
bubble is released is referred to as the bubble 
point and for a fluid such as wine, it is related 
to the size of the largest pore. The bubble 
point testing involves filling the membrane 
housing with wine and applying regulated gas pressure to the inlet side. The pressure is 
gradually increased until the first bubbles ap­
pear in the outlet side. Nitrogen is the gas of 
choice and carbon dioxide is not used for 
reasons of its high solubility. The bubble point 
procedure and the related forward-flow test 
for membrane filters are used to ensure that 
the filter is intact and that the housings have 
been mounted correctly before each filtration. 
These tests are discussed in more detail in 
Chapter 11. 
Filters of this type have a very limited hold­
ing capacity for solids and the majority of the 
solids load should have been removed by ear­
lier clarification or prefilters. These filters are 
not used as filters in the usual sense, but 
rather as final collectors to ensure absolute 
removal of the few remaining cells and mi­
cron-sized particles which have passed through 
earlier filters. 
a. Types of Membrane Filters 
The most common arrangement is for the 
membrane to be made into a cartridge which 
is installed in a vertical cylindrical housing. 
The cartridges have a central steel tube with 
small holes to allow for the collection of the 
filtrate. The membrane material is then ap­
plied and a plastic mesh is placed over the 
membrane to keep it in place. The flow is 
from the body of the cartridge housing, radi­
ally inward through the membrane surface 
and down the central tube, discharging at the 
base. Housings which hold several cartridges 
are used for larger applications while single­
cartridge units are common in small wineries. 
A common arrangement is the use of two 
parallel cartridges so that the first is used until 
exhausted and the flow is redirected to the 
second without the need to open the line and 
go through the subsequent sterilization. 
The alternative arrangement is for mem­
brane discs to be placed onto disc supports 
and stacked on top of each other. The stack is 
then covered by a short cylindrical housing. 
The flow pattern is from the body of the 
housing through channels in the circumfer­
ence of the disc, down and out the bottom of The Fining and Clarification of Wines 303 
the disc, through the membrane and into the 
upper section of the disc below, into the cen­
tral collection port. 
b. Manufacturers 
The companies providing most of the mem­
brane filters for wine applications are Milli­
pore, Sartorius, and Pall. These companies 
also produce cartridge prefilter units with 
some depth collection capacity for use up­
stream of their membranes. The cartridges 
often have approximate pore sizes of 1.2 to 
2.0 J.Lm in diameter. Pore sizes of 0.65 J.Lm are 
required for yeast removal and 0.45 J.Lm for 
the removal of bacteria. 
4. Cross-Flow Filters 
This description of filtration has so far focused 
on the currently used, traditional, perpendicu­
lar flow filters. In this arrangement, all of the 
filtrate passed through the filter medium on 
the first pass and the suspended solids content 
played a major role in the fouling of the filter 
surface, or the filter cake even with the intro­
duction of diatomaceous earth in order to 
maintain porous filter cakes as the run pro­
gressed. 
Cross-flow filters, as the name implies, are 
set up so that most of the fluid passes rapidly 
across the filter surface with only a very small 
fraction of it permeating as the filtrate. In the 
general terminology of cross-flow filters, the 
filtrate is referred to as the permeate and the 
fraction which is not filtered is known as the 
retentate. The cross-flowing but unfiltered fluid 
is recycled and passes across the surface many 
times during the run. A typical cross-flow fil­
tration system is shown in Figure 7-12. The use 
of a cross-flow arrangement greatly reduces 
the role of the suspended solids in slowing the 
filtration rate as they are continually being 
swept along and are not accumulating as a 
cake on the filter surface. The disadvantage 
with this type of arrangement is that the fluxes 
are orders of magnitude smaller than with 
conventional filters, requiring much larger 
surface areas and much longer filtration times 304 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
Fig. 7-12. A cross-flow microfilter installed in a California winery. 
for larger batches. The application of cross­
flow filters to juice clarification was briefly 
discussed in Chapter 3. 
Microfiltration is generally defined to be 
filtrations that collect suspended particles in 
the microbial range 0.1- to I-JLm diameter. By 
comparison, ultrafiltration and reverse osmosis 
both involve the removal of solutes from the 
filtrate based on molecular volume. In this 
range it is more usual to talk in terms of 
molecular weight which is more easily mea­
sured than molecular size. The nominal cutoff 
value is an average of a range of weights that 
are rejected to various extents rather than a 
sharp cutoff as the names of the filters might 
indicate. In many systems, the accumulation of 
solutes will not plug the filter in the usual 
sense, but it usually reduces the filtrate flux 
due to concentration gradients near the mem­
brane surface. 
The application of cross-flow filters to wine­
making will be considered according to the three distinct applications, microfiltration, ul­
trafiltration, and reverse osmosis. 
a. Microfiltration 
There are several alternative filter designs and 
materials of this type. The nominal pore size is 
in the range 0.2 to 0.8 JLm and flux rates per 
unit of pressure difference are of the order of 
30 to 50 L/m2/hr with wine at transmem­
brane pressures of 50 to 100 kPa. 
Four potential applications are in the fol­
lowing areas of winemaking: 
1. Sterile Juice-Production of sterile filtered 
juice in a single filtration step after a prelimi­
nary clarification by either a centrifuge or a 
rough diatomaceous earth filtration. This 
would enable juice to be stored near ambient 
temperatures, but without the energy con­
sumption of evaporative concentration, and 
without the need for the high levels of sulfur 
dioxide required by the sulfiting process. 2. Recovery of Yeast and Bacteria-Selected 
yeasts and bacteria are not presently recov­
ered because of the grape solids. If the juice 
was clarified by a microfilter first, it could be 
refiltered on the microfilter to recover the 
inoculum. This might be used for fermenta­
tion or as an industrial protein source. Fer­
mentations could be accelerated by larger 
inocula since the resulting population would 
be recovered after the fermentation. Two of 
the major practical considerations of the mal­
olactic fermentation in wines is the propaga­
tion of sufficient bacteria to make the desired 
inoculation and the encouragement of their 
growth in the wine. The efficient recovery of 
large bacterial cultures by cross-flow filtration 
may reduce the need for their growth in 
wine. This has been done successfully with 
cultures of lactic acid bacteria in a fermenta­
tion medium using a ceramic cross-flow mi­
crofilter (Taniguchi et al. 1987). 
3. Recovery of Immobilized Enzymes-The use 
of more selective adsorbents and enzyme 
treatments, which currently would be unac­
ceptable from a cost point of view, could be 
justified if these were used in a slurry jpar­
ticulate form so as to enable their recovery, 
regeneration, and reuse by a cross-flow mi­
crofilter. 
4. Microbe-Free Wine-Recovery of the yeast 
and bacteria as discussed above would simul­
taneously remove wild organisms and provide 
sterile wine for storage and aging. A final 
sterile filtration at bottling would still be 
needed due to the possibility of contamina­
tion during transfers, fining, and aging. 
Studies on the application of micro filters in 
the clarification of juices and wines are nu­
merous (Boulton 1976; Poirier et al. 1984; 
Gaillard and Berger 1984; Berger 1985; Romat 
et al. 1986; Cattaruzza et al. 1987; Ludemann 
1987; Peri 1987; Peri et al. 1988; Serrano et al. 
1988; Schmitt et al. 1989; Descout 1989; Gail­
lard 1989; Serrano 1992). These studies have 
shown that the performance is considerably 
more dependent on the collodial properties of 
wine and the filter medium being used than 
for diatomaceous earth and pad filtrations 
(Wucherpfennig et al. 1984; Castino and 
Delfini 1984; Cattaruzza et al. 1987; Belleville The Fining and Clarification of Wines 305 
et al. 1991). The initial rapid decline in flux 
observed in almost all studies has led to a 
focus on the nature of the polysaccharide 
components involved in this. There have been 
several recent studies of the isolation and frac­
tionation of wine polysaccharides (Brillouet et 
al. 1990; Zimmer et al. 1992), and their behav­
ior during microfiltration (Brillouet et al. 1989; 
Wucherpfennig and Dietrich 1989; Belleville 
et al. 1991). There was a period when the 
polysaccharides were thought to have an effect 
on the sensory properties of wines but several 
studies have shown this to be insignificant in 
the microfiltration applications (Gaillard and 
Berger 1984; Will et al. 1991). The modifica­
tion of the colloidal content is significant with 
the ultrafiltration applications and can have 
subsequent effects on physical stability (Bril­
louet et al. 1991) and there are demonstrated 
effects on the tartrate stability of wine (Escu­
dier and Moutounet 1987; Escudier et al. 1987) 
as might be expected. 
b. Types of Cross-Flow Filters 
Cross-flow can be set up in several ways and 
various manufacturers have propriety arrange­
ments. The filters can be classified into flat­
plate, hollow-fiber or spiral-wound depending 
on the configuration. The filter medium can 
also vary from polypropylene and polysulfone 
polymers to porous stainless steel, ceramic, or 
zirconium composites. There are several mak­
ers of cross-flow filters and these include APV, 
Ceraflo, DDS, Dorr-Oliver, IMECA, Rhone­
Poulenc, SFEC, Membrana, Memcor, Mott, 
Sartorius, Koch-Romicon, Seitz, and Schenk. 
c. Ultrafiltration 
One definition of ultrafiltration is the cross­
flow separation of large-molecular-weight so­
lutes rather than suspended particles. Ultrafil­
ters are generally classified according to their 
molecular weight cutoff, or MWCO, that is the 
average size of the range of molecule that they 
will effectively retain and this would range 
between 1,000 and 100,000 daltons. The more 
common cutoff values for filters being used 
commercially for the removal of proteins from 306 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
milk or apple juice are 10,000 and 40,000 
daltons. The solutes in the 50,000 to 200,000 
range are polysaccharides that have been pro­
duced by the grape and the yeast. Those in the 
10,000 to 50,000 range are most of the protein 
fractions of white wines. The main commercial 
filtration applications with polymeric mem­
branes are from companies such as Millipore, 
Romicon-Koch, Dorr-Oliver, Patterson Candy 
(PCI), Sartorius, and DDS. The aggregate 
composites are produced by Cereflo and SFEG 
I. Protein Stabilization. For wine use, a 
number of 10,000 MWCO membranes have 
been tried for the removal of proteins which 
have a molecular weight range of between 
20,000 to 40,000 in an attempt to provide heat 
or protein stability in the wine. This applica­
tion, which would be a processing alternative 
to the application and removal of bentonites, 
has received considerable research attention 
(Gaillard and Berger 1984; Poirier et al. 1984; 
Miller et al. 1985; Cattaruzza et al. 1987; Hsu 
et al. 1987; Flores et al. 1988) but it is not 
widely used commercially because of the un­
desirable removal of phenolic components 
which are retained by the 20,000 MWCO 
membranes for reasons other than size (Peri et 
al. 1988). The removal of haze precursors is 
not always successful since peptides (MW < 
10,000), either alone or in complexes involv­
ing phenolics, are often involved in these in­
stabilities (Yokotsuka and Singleton 1987). 
There are various flow arrangements (hol­
low-fiber, spiral, and flat-plate) but most of the 
differences are due to the nature of the syn­
thetic polymer membranes that are employed. 
The flux rates (that is the volumetric flow rate 
per unit area) with wines are of the order of 5 
to 20 L/m2/hr. 
II. Tannin and Color Removal. Trials have 
been conducted using 500 to 2000 MWCO 
membranes for the removal of red pigments 
and/or astringent tannin from press fractions. 
The BATF currently considers this to be a 
significant alteration of the wine composition 
and it has not therefore been approved as a 
winemaking practice in the United States. d. Reverse Osmosis 
The most common application of reverse os­
mosis has been the filtration of inorganic salts 
from sea water. Since osmosis is the passage of 
water through a membrane into a salt (or 
organic solute) solution, the extraction of wa­
ter from such solutions has led to the term 
reverse osmosis. The molecular exclusion applies 
to the neutral species, but the membranes 
have considerable rejection of small ions due 
to additional charge rejection effects. Pore 
sizes for this application are now of the order 
of 10 to 100 MWCO (or atomic/ionic weight), 
and flux rates are between 10 to 20 L/m2/hr 
at transmembrane pressures of 1 and 2 MPa. 
The flux rate is dependent on the differ­
ence between the osmotic pressure difference 
across the membrane (the retentate is higher 
in osmotic pressure) and the fluid transmem­
brane pressure difference developed by the 
pump. For this reason once the retentate 
reaches an osmotic pressure comparable to 
that of the transmembrane pressure differ­
ence, the flux will fall to zero. For juices, this 
occurs at about 25 Brix for many systems, 
while for wines there is often precipitation of 
concentrated organic components before the 
zero flux condition is approached. The major 
companies involved with the reverse osmosis 
applications in beverages are Enka, Millipore, 
and Patterson Candy (pcl). 
I. Low-Ethanol Wine Production. The use 
of reverse osmosis (RO) membranes with an 
MWCO of approximately 75 to 100 can pro­
vide a filtrate which contains primarily water 
(MW = 18), a small fraction of other organics 
(MW = 20 to 60), and ethanol (MW = 46). All 
other major constituents, amino acids, sugars 
and major organic acids, phenolics, etc., are 
essentially retained or rejected due to their 
charge. In the simplest process, water is added 
back to the retentate to produce a wine of 
lower alcohol content, but essentially the same 
in all other constituents. The filtrate is dis­
carded as a dilute ethanol byproduct. There 
are several ways of operating such an applica­
tion from a continuous multistage process to successive batch operations with a single stage 
and the semicontinuous feed and bleed ap­
proach (Light et al. 1986). 
In the United States there are legal and 
reporting requirements pertaining to the 
change in alcohol content and this usually 
requires a license similar to that for produc­
tion and disposal of wine spirits. This technol­
ogy has been used commercially to produce 
low-alcohol beers (Niefind and Schmitz 1981; 
Light et al. 1986) and wines (Cuenat et al. 
1989; Bourderioux and Vican 1989) for the 
past decade and has the advantage of being a 
selective, low-energy, low-temperature process 
without the energy consumption required by 
evaporation. 
The alternative evaporative processes for 
the production of low-ethanol wine are vac­
uum stripping of volatiles in equipment such 
as a stripping column, the Centritherm unit, 
or the Spining Cone approach. 
II. Acetic Acid Removal. A recently com­
mercialized process for the removal of acetic 
acid from wine involves reverse osmosis to 
yield an acetic acid-rich-permeate which is 
treated by ion exchange to remove the acid. 
The acetic acid is mostly un-ionized in wine 
and passes through the membrane while most 
other inorganic ions and larger organic ions 
are retained due to charge exclusion. The 
treated permeate is then recombined with the 
retentate to produce the wine with little 
change other than in the acetic acid concen­
tration. 
III. Juice Concentration. Other applica­
tions of reverse osmosis that have been sug­
gested are the production of juice (and wine) 
concentrates without the application of heat, 
but this is not very suitable for grape products 
due to the osmotic pressure of the starting 
material at 20 Brix (3.5 MPa) and a present 
practical upper limit of a final product that is 
only 25 Brix (4 MPa). 
The limitations due to transmembrane 
pressure have been overcome in two ways. The 
first, developed by the Du Pont Corporation 
involves the application of two different mem-The Fining and Clan fication of Wines 307 
branes at high pressures to develop concen­
trates above 60 Brix in a two-stage concentra­
tion. The other uses a strong salt (or sugar) 
solution (of higher osmotic pressure) for the 
receiving fluid and this permits the water to be 
drawn from the juice as vapor through a mem­
brane rather than forced from it. The mem­
brane used in this application is made by 
Hoechst Celanese. The salt solution is then 
concentrated to remove the transferred water 
and to return to its initial condition. One 
application of this approach is the production 
of juice concentrates at strengths comparable 
to those produced by evaporative means (60 to 
66 Brix) but without the temperature-time 
conditions associated with that process 
(Thompson 1991). This approach has been 
called osmotic distillation even though the term 
distillation is generally associated with an evap­
orative concentration process. The colloid 
content of juices (and wines) would be ex­
pected to provide considerable fouling and 
rapidly declining filtration rates on these 
membranes and pretreatment of the juice 
would be necessary. There is little published 
production data related to this application. 
E. FILTRATION TESTING AND 
MODELING 
The interest in testing and modeling juice and 
wine filtrations arises from the natural varia­
tion in colloidal content of most juice prod­
ucts and the role that this plays in the fouling 
of filters at the microfiltration level. One rea­
son for adopting a routine testing procedure 
for wine filtrations would be the detection of 
filtration problems in advance, while another 
would be the prediction of actual filter perfor­
mance prior to operation in order to estimate 
the time required or pressures developed for a 
particular wine and filtration setup. 
There are several acceptable filter test sys­
tems available; however, the more important 
factor is usually the way in which the data are 
collected and interpreted. There are essen­
tially three alternative approaches: the calcula-308 The Fining and Clan jication of Wines 
tion of some kind of numerical fouling index, 
the estimation of the maximum volume that 
can be filtered, and the analysis of the nature 
of the fouling by determining the manner in 
which the resistance develops during the fil­
tration. 
If the purpose of the testing is simply to 
obtain relative values of filterability on the 
same filter medium, the first is applicable. It is 
of limited use in that the initial resistance of 
the filter is combined with that developed 
during the filtration and therefore cannot be 
used to compare different grades of filters. 
Examples of indices of this kind are those 
proposed by Ribereau-Gayon and Peynaud 
(1961), the index of fouling (Geoffroy and 
Perin 1962; Laurenty 1972 in Descout et al 
(1976)), modifications of them (De scout et al. 
1976), and the Millipore filterability index 
(Meglioli et al. 1983). The formulas used for 
these different indices are summarized in 
Table 7-6. 
A more useful interpretation is to estimate 
the maximum volume that can pass through 
the filter Vrnax using the formulas developed 
by Raible and Bantleon (1968) and Esser 
(1972). These are based on the slope of trans­
formed plots originally proposed by Hermans 
and Bredee (1936). The maximum volume is a 
better measure of filter capacity than the in­
dices in that the initial resistance of the filter is 
separated from the slope determination. This 
approach has been used in a number of stud-
Table 7-6. Fonnulas of alternative filterability indices. 
Author 
Ribereau-Gayon and 
Peynaud (1961) 
Geoffroy and Perin 
(1962) 
Laurenty 
(in Descout et al. 1976) 
Descout et al. (1976) 
Meglioli et al. (1983) Name 
Pouvoir de 
Colmatage 
Indice de 
Colmatage 
Indice de 
Colmatage 
Indice de 
Colmatage Modifie 
Millipore 
Filterability Index ies of the pad and membrane filterability of 
wines (Salgues et al. 1982; Gaillard 1984; Ser­
rano et al. 1982, and Piracci 1988) in which 
the filtrate volume was determined at several 
times during the test. Unfortunately, the same 
result can be determined by simply setting up 
a test condition and simply noting the filtrate 
volume when the filter has plugged. It remains 
a relative value which provides little informa­
tion about the rate at which the resistance 
develops and it seems to be more suitable for 
very clear beers and wines. The rate of fouling 
is usually the more significant factor in the 
performance of the full-scale filtration than 
the maximum volume that can be filtered. 
The third approach attempts to determine 
the way in which the resistance of the filter is 
changing with respect to the volume that has 
been filtered rather than the time. It uses a 
rate basis for estimating the resistance rather 
than the more usual volume and time values 
of other approaches. It also uses models that 
take into account the initial resistance of the 
filter, excluding them from the estimated foul­
ing constants. This approach was originally 
developed by Sperry for diatomaceous earth 
(or cake) filtrations (Pure has 1967) and has 
been extended to two general cases of nonlin­
ear fouling that are more usual in the filtra­
tion of wines using pads and membranes (De 
La Garza and Boulton 1984). It can also be 
extended to describe the fouling and flux re­
duction in cross-flow filters as will be discussed 
Formula' Recommendation 
IC = TlOO -2 * ToO 
IC < 20 
MIC < 10 
a"'here T50 is the time taken to filter the first 50 mL and T600 is that taken for the first 600 mL. in a later section. This approach differs from 
those previously discussed in that it can be 
incorporated into fluid flow calculations for 
the full-scale filtration, taking into account the 
characteristics of the pump, features of the 
piping, and liquid levels in the feed and re­
ceiving tanks. It is presently the only modeling 
approach capable of doing this and, accord­
ingly, will be described in more detail. 
1. Early Filtration Descriptions 
The earliest theoretical description of the rate 
of flow in granular beds was that developed by 
Darcy (Sperry 1917) in which the rate was 
related to the resistance developed by the bed: 
dV Idt = Ll P * AIRI f.L 
where the dV I dt is the rate of filtration, Ll P is 
the pressure difference across the filter; A is 
the filter area; and R is the resistance of the 
bed. Sperry (I 917) expanded this description 
for the collection of fine granular materials in 
filter cakes. He proposed that the resistance of 
the filter began with that of the bed alone and 
then it increased linearly with the quantity of 
material collected. The filtration rate would 
then fall inversely with the volume of filtrate 
and the nature of the material being collected 
by the filter. In contemporary terms Sperry's 
equation can be expressed as: 
where Rm is the medium resistance, due to the 
initial filter cake and its support; and a, the 
specific cake resistance, is a property of the 
material being collected in the cake. The val­
ues of Rm and a * C can be determined from 
a filtration test in which filtrate volume and 
time are recorded at several points along the 
way to plugging. The filter resistance can be 
estimated over successive intervals by dividing 
the product of the pressure difference, the 
filter area, and the time of the interval by the 
change in volume during the interval. A plot 
of the filter resistance R against the filtrate 
volume per unit area V lA, will yield a straight The Fining and Clarification of Wines 309 
line with an intercept at V = 0 of Rm and a 
slope of a * C. 
Sperry's equation has been used to success­
fully describe the fouling of a wide range of 
diatomaceous earth filtrations. Studies with 
grape juices using various grades of filter ma­
terial (Harris 1964) have been analyzed using 
this approach (Boulton 1980) and one exam­
ple is presented in Figures 7-13a and 7-13b. 
This description is also suitable for the inter­
pretation and prediction of wine filtrations 
through diatomaceous earth filters. 
2. Pad and Membrane Filtrations 
The filtration of wines with a pad or mem­
branes will generally display a nonlinear resis­
tance curve and cannot be described by 
Sperry's equation. This is because the collec­
tion of material cannot be described by the 
granular bed analogy in the absence of a filter 
aid. The filter fouling then displays an acceler­
ating resistance characteristic which can be 
described by either one or both of the follow­
ing equations. 
The first, referred to as the Exponential 
model (De La Garza 1982), considers the resis­
tance of the filter to increase in an exponen­
tial manner with the volume filtered: 
dV Idt = Ll P * AI[Rm *exp(b . VI A)]j f.L 
with 
where b is now a fouling coefficient related to 
the filter type and the materials being col­
lected from the wine under consideration. 
The constants Rm and b can be evaluated 
by calculating the resistance over each interval 
as described above and plotting the logarithm 
of the resistance against the volume per unit 
area, VIA. The intercept will then be log (Rm) 
and the slope of the semilog graph, the con­
stant, b. Alternatively, a nonlinear regression 
program can be used to evaluate these con­
stants in a nontransformed manner. The fil-310 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
500 
400 
Iii I 
"0 300 
~ 
~ iI 
~ 200 
"0 > 
100 
Time (Seconds) 
(a) • 
0 
• 
0 1% Addition 
2% Addition 
3% Addition 
4% Addition 
3~---------------------, 
• 1% Addition 
2 
4 o o 2% Addition 
• 3% Addition 
'~ 
O~~~----~--~----~--~ o 4% Addition 
0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0040 0.50 
Fig. 7-13. The effect of dosing rate 
on the filterability of a grape juice. 
tration of a 1981 Sauvignon blanc wine using a 
Seitz 200 pad filter is shown in Figure 7-14. 
The second description, referred to as the 
Power model, considers the resistance to accu­
mulate in an additive manner like Sperry's 
equation except that higher-order fouling re­
lationships are permitted: Volume / Area (m) 
(b) 
with 
where the constants Rm, a and b are estimated 
from a log-log plot of the term (R -Rm) 
against the volume per unit area, V / A. The 
constant Rm, is estimated successively until the 
best straight line is obtained and the resulting 
intercept is then log (a) and the slope is the 
constant b. An example of the Power model to The Fining and Clarification of Wines 311 
6 
5 
E ..... 
Ol 4 4 
0 
~ 
(]) 3 u C III .... 
I/) 2 iii 
(]) a: 
O~----~-------L------~----~------~----~ 
0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0040 
VollSTle / Area (m) 
-- Equation • Data 
the filtration of the same wine and filter as 
shown in Figure 7-14, is shown in Figure 7-15. 
The Power form is a general description in 
which no prior assumptions are made as to the 
kind of fouling law that exists. It can be shown 
to be the general form of many earlier block­
ing laws such as the cake, intermediate, stan­
dard, and absolute types of Hermans and 
Bredee (I936) when the index b has the values 
1, 2, 2.5, and 3. It is also more generally 
applicable than the different forms used for 
6 
5 
E ..... 
Ol 4 4 
0 
(]) 3 u 
C 
III .... 
I/) 2 iii 
(]) a: 0.50 0.60 
Fig. 7-14. The development of resis­
tance during a wine filtration and its 
description by the exponential model. 
data plots that are based on these laws (Raible 
and Bantleon 1968; Esser 1972; Dubourdieu et 
al. 1976; Eyben and Duthoy 1979; Salgues et 
al. 1982; Serrano et al. 1982; Piracci 1988). 
The suitability of these descriptions to the 
quantitative description of many wine and pad 
combinations has been presented (De La Garza 
and Boulton 1984). These have also been ap­
plied to the interpretation of apple (Bayindirli 
et al. 1989) and other juice filtrations and are 
generally applicable to filtration systems that 
• 
0L-----~----~------~----~------~----~ 
0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0040 
VollSTle / Area (m) 
-- Equation • Data 0.50 0.60 
Fig. 7-15. The development of resis­
tance during a wine filtration and its 
description by the power model. 312 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
show the nonlinear fouling characteristics as­
sociated with the collection of compressible or 
gelatinous materials such as fruit pulp, yeast, 
bacteria, and colloidal components. 
Computer programs have been written that 
perform these calculations (De La Garza 1982) 
and these have been incorporated into the 
filter testing procedure of a number of winer­
ies in California. 
3. Cross-Flow Filtrations 
It is usual in studies of cross-flow filtration to 
plot the flux rate rather than the filtrate vol­
ume, against the filtration time. Examples of 
such measurements with wines show the rapid 
initial decline in the flux rate, followed by a 
very slow fall in rate as the filtration continues 
(Boulton 1976; Gaillard and Berger 1984; 
Ludemann 1987). The filtration then contin­
ues for quite some time with little, if any, 
further fouling. This in contrast to the contin­
ual and often accelerated fouling of perpen­
dicular flow filters. 
The description of the flux rates associated 
with cross-flow filtrations can also be described 
by an extension of the model presented above. 
The major difference is that under cross-flow 
conditions there is more dramatic initial re­
duction in the filtration rate, followed by a 
stage in which progressive fouling of the filter 
takes place at a much slower rate than it does 
with the perpendicular flow arrangements. A 
concentration gradient of suspended material 
at the filter surface is established during the 
initial stage and maintained throughout the 
filtration, providing an essentially constant re­
sistance to the wine or juice as it passes through 
the filter surface. The gradually increasing 
concentration of suspended matter as the fil­
trate volume increases can be described by a 
volume per unit area term but with a weaker 
dependency than those of the above cases. 
The description for the cross-flow filtration 
situation is then: with 
R =Rm +d*[l- exp(-e*V/A)] 
* [Vo/(V o -V)] 
where d and e are the characteristics of the 
resistance due to the boundary layer; and v;, is 
the initial volume to be filtered. The actual 
resistance of this layer develops exponentially 
with the volume filtered and it also increases 
due to the progressive concentration of the 
suspended particles as the filtration pro­
gresses. 
In this approach, the magnitude of the ad­
ditional resistance developed under cross-flow 
operation is estimated from a filter test of the 
wine and filter combination. The application 
of this form of the filter model to the data for 
microfiltration of wine (Ludemann 1987) is 
shown in Figure 7-16. A more theoretical ap­
proach to the estimation of this resistance has 
been developed (Bennasar and Tarodo de la 
Fuente 1987) but this requires a number of 
membrane-specific properties to be known. It 
is usually more convenient to estimate the 
characteristic constants from the actual filtra­
tion performance in the manner described 
previously. 
4. Filter Testing 
Perhaps the most poorly quantified aspect of 
wine processing is the ability to predict the 
interaction of a wine with a given filtration 
medium. There are at least two reasons for 
wanting to predict this performance in ad­
vance of the actual filtration and these are: (1) 
To decide whether the filtration is appropriate 
(does it foul too rapidly, or is it even neces­
sary); and (2) to predict the full-scale filtration 
rates so that the time required to filter a given 
volume can be estimated. 
In order to answer either of these questions 
it is necessary to conduct a filtration test of the 
wine with the filter medium in question and to 
be able to interpret the results. There is far 
too much variation between the filterability of 
wines to generalize about their performance, 
especially with regard to filters with small pore 200 
175 
t 150 ..... ! 125 
~ 100 
u:: 
Q) 75 .... 
til 
:E 50 u:: 
25 
0 
0 50 100 150 200 
Time (Hcxrs) 
-- Model • Data 
sizes and when the filtration medium is more 
valuable. 
These laboratory tests can be classified into 
two general groups; one in which overall ca­
pacity information is sought and the other in 
which the rate of fouling is measured with a 
view to modeling of the fouling for full-scale 
prediction. 
a. Filter Performance Criteria 
The simplest form of the overall performance 
test typically attempts to find whether the vol­
ume filtered up to the plugging point exceeds 
a predetermined value of overall capacity 
(volume per unit area). The next level is to 
include a time factor to find if this volume can 
be filtered within a certain time (or the inverse 
test of how long it takes for a given volume to 
be filtered). There are several fouling indices 
Table 7-7. Fonnulas of alternative filterability measures. 
Author Name The Fining and Clarification of Wines 313 
250 300 
Fig. 7-16. The decay in filter flux 
during a wine filtration and its de­
scription by the crossflow model. 
which have been proposed (Table 7-6) that 
use the times to obtain successive filtration 
fractions. 
While both of these tests can be used to 
generate a numerical scale that can be used to 
compare wines for the same filter test condi­
tions, they have little application to the full­
scale filtrations. The maximum volume esti­
mates (Table 7-7) are of limited use since 
complete plugging is rarely sought during 
production conditions. They are also not 
unique since an infinite number of alternative 
fouling rates can lead to the same final vol­
ume, even if at different times. 
b. Filtration Rate Tests 
Filtration tests can be conducted under either 
constant pressure or constant flow conditions 
and several testing units are commercially 
Formulaa Comment 
Raible and Filter factor FF = (T2 -VdV\T\)/(Vl[1 -V\/V 2]) Derived for 
Bantleon (1968) Earth Filtrations 
Precoat factor PF = (2T\[V 2/Vd -T2)/(V2[V2/V\ -I]) Sometimes 
negative 
Esser(1972) Maximum volume Vmax = (T2 -T\)/(T 2/V2 -T\/V\) Uses T2 = 5 and 
T\ = 2 minutes 
aWhere V1 and V2 are the filtrate volumes after times T1 and T2. 314 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
available which are suitable for diatomaceous 
earth, pad, or membrane filtrations. An exam­
ple of simple filter test setup is provided by De 
La Garza and Boulton (1984). 
The usual procedure is a constant pressure 
test in which the volume filtered is measured 
at several points in time. The volume to be 
filtered should be such that when divided by 
the area of the test filter being used, it has the 
same (or larger) volume to area ratio that is 
expected in the full-scale filtration. The read­
ings should be closely spaced to provide good 
estimates of the changing rate and the mea­
surements should continue until the time 
taken for a volume increment has increased to 
three or four times that for the first such 
increment. This means that the filtration rate 
has fallen to one-third or one-quarter of the 
initial rate, and the filter resistance has in­
creased to three or four times its initial value. 
The cleaner the wine, the larger the volume 
needed for this to occur. If there is little 
change in the time taken for similar volume 
increments, the entire test volume should be 
filtered. 
An alternative method is the constant flow 
rate test which uses a positive displacement 
pump to control the flow rate and the pres­
sure drop across the filter is measured. The 
flow rate should be set to approximately that 
expected in the full-scale filter. The test is 
halted when the pressure difference exceeds 
that recommended by the manufacturer and 
the time or filtrate volume is noted. This pro­
vides a more realistic measure of the volume 
per unit area to be expected at the full-scale 
filtration. If the pressure at several points 
throughout the test is noted, the filtration 
models described previously can be used to 
develop model constants for the wine and 
filter combination. This method is not widely 
used, presumably due to the cost and availabil­
ity of the test systems. 
c. Test Conditions 
The validity of the test will depend on the 
extent to which the test conditions approxi­
mate those of the full-scale filtration. The wine used in the test should be in the condition 
that it will be in when it sees the correspond­
ing full-scale filter. This may be prefiltered. 
fined, or chilled depending on the handling 
of the wine in question. The test temperature 
is especially important for small pore earth, 
pad or membrane filters where the solubilit) 
of colloidal matter such as protein-phenol 
complexes and polysaccharides is quite tem­
perature dependent. At lower temperatures 
such as O°C to SoC, the colloidal materials are 
far less soluble and they become an important 
factor in the fouling mechanism and rate, (De 
La Garza and Boulton 1984). The similarity of 
flow rate conditions is especially important 
when a charge-modified filter medium is be­
ing used since the flow rate will determine the 
role that the zeta-potential contribution will 
play in the collection mechanism and the foul­
ing rate. The tests will generally be performed 
under pressure rather than by vacuum since 
there can be significant bubble formation 
within the filter medium, leading to modified 
flow and resistance conditions. 
5. Full-Scale Prediction 
While one application of the above develop­
ment is to characterize the filter performance 
of wine on a relative basis, its real value is in its 
application to the prediction and control of 
full-scale juice and wine filtrations. 
The shortcoming of almost all other filtra­
tion test procedures is that they generally at­
tempt to predict filterability by ignoring the 
interaction that exists between the filter, the 
pump, and the other components of the fil­
tration setup. The heights of the wine surfaces 
in the tanks being used and the length and 
diameter of the transfer lines, as well as the 
type of fittings in the lines, can and usually do 
have a significant influence on the actual resis­
tances that the pump experiences in addition 
to that of the filter. 
The filtration equations developed above 
are descriptions of the fluid resistance that a 
filter develops due to the passage of wine 
through it at some particular rate. The resis-tance associated with the passage of wine 
through the transfer line can be calculated 
from a knowledge of the flow configuration 
and friction relationships. 
The relationship between the flow rate gen­
erated by a pump and the pressure difference 
across the pump is referred to as the pump 
characteristic and is usually available from the 
pump supplier or it can be determined exper­
imentally. These expressions can be incorpo­
rated into a general relationship that defines 
the flow rate that will result from the use of 
any particular pump. Such relationships have 
been programmed and solved using a com­
puter, and the logical extension of any filter 
testing is then the rapid prediction of the 
full-scale filtration performance of a particular 
wine in a given setup before the filtration 
takes place. This approach has direct benefits 
in the advanced detection of problem filtra­
tions and the avoidance of inappropriate setup 
or pump arrangements. 
The way in which a pump, filter, and com­
ponents of the transfer line interact are con­
sidered in more detail in Chapter 13. 
F. REFERENCES 
BACH, H. P., and P. HOFFMAN. 1978. "Der Einfluss 
unterschiedlicher Mostbehandlung auf 
Geschmack und Zusammensetzung der weine." 
Weinwirt.41:1259-1265. 
BAUER, H., M. HORISBERGER, D. A. BUSH, and E. 
SIGARLAKI. 1972. "Mannan as a major compo­
nent of the bud scars of Saccharomyces cereuisiae." 
Arch. Mikrobiol. 85:202-208. 
BAYINDIRLI, L., M. OEZILGEN, and S. UNGAN. 1989. 
"Modeling of apple juice filtrations."]' Food Sci. 
54: 1 003- 1 006. 
BELLEVILLE, M.-P., J-M. BRILLOUET, B. TARODO DE LA 
FUENTE, L. SAULNIER, and M. MOUTOUNET. 1991. 
"Differential roles of red wine colloids in the 
fouling of a cross-flow microfiltration alumina 
membrane." Vitic.Enol. Sci. 46:100-107. 
BENNASAR, M., and B. TARODO DE LA FUENTE. 1987. 
"Model of the fouling mechanism and of the 
working of a mineral membrane in tangential 
filtration." Sci. Aliments 7:647-655. The Fining and Clarification of Wines 315 
BERG, L. A., G. GODWIN-AUSTIN, and K. ROBISON. 
1986. "Effect of fibers added during pressure 
leaf filtration on the membrane filterability of 
white table wines." Am.J.Enol. Vitic. 37:174-178. 
BERGER, J L. 1985. "Etude de la microfiltration 
tangentielle sur des Beaujolais." Rev. des Genol. 
36:17-21. 
BLADE, H. W., and R. B. BOULTON. 1988. "Adsorp­
tion of protein by bentonite in a model wine 
solution." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 39:193-199. 
BOBET, R. A., A. C. NOBLE, and R. B. BOULTON. 
1990. "Kinetics of the ethanethiol and diethyl 
disulfide interconversion in wine-like solutions." 
]. Agric. Food Chem. 38:449-452. 
BOULTON, R. 1976. "Crossflow filtration of Juices 
and Wines." Unpublished Data. 
BOl:LTON, R. 1980. "The quantitative evaluation of 
juice and wine filtrations." Proc. U.c. Davis Grape 
and Wine Cent. Symp. 16-19. 
BOURDERIOl:X, M., and C. VICAc'l. 1989. "La prepa­
ration de boissons a faible degre alcoolique a 
partir du vin par osmose inverse." Rev. des Genol. 
51:31-32. 
BRILLOUET, J-M., C. Bosso, and M. MOl:TOUNET. 
1990. "Isolation, purification and characteriza­
tion of an arabinogalactan from a red wine." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:29-36. 
BRILLOUET, J-M., M. MOUTOl:NET, and J L. ESCl:D­
IER. 1989. "Fate of yeast and grape pectic 
polysaccharides of a young red wine in the 
cross-flow m icrofiltration process." Vitis 
28:49-63. 
BRILLOl:ET, J-M., M.-P. MOUTOl:NET, and M. 
MOl:TOUNET. 1991. "Possible protein-polysac­
charide complexes in red wines." Am.]' Enol. 
Vitic. 42:150-152. 
CAPUTI, A. JR., and R. G. PETERSON. 1965. "The 
browning problem in wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
16:9-13. 
CASTINO, M. and C. DELFIN!. 1984. "La filtrabilita 
dei vini in funzione del tenore in colloidi.'· Vini 
d'Italia 26:45-56. 
CATTARL:ZZA, A., C. PERI, and M. RossI. 1987. "Ul­
trafiltration and deep-bed filtration of a red wine: 
Comparative experiments." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
38:139-142. 
CHIBATA, I., T. TOSA, T. MORI, T. WATANABE, and N. 
SAKATA. 1986. "Immobilized Tannin." Enz. Mi­
crobiol. Technol. 8:130-136. 316 The Fining and Clari.fo;ation of Wines 
CHIBATA, I., T. TOSA, T. MORl, T. WATANABE, K 
YOMASHITA, and N. SAKATA. 1982. "Applications 
of immobilized tannin for protein and metal 
absorption." In Enzyme Engineering VI, I. Chibata 
et al. Eds. New York: Plenum Press. 
CCENAT, P., D. KOBEL, and E. ZCFFEREY. 1989. 
"L'osmose inverse et I'oenologie." Bull. OJ.v. 
62:519-537. 
DEAN,J. A. 1987. Handbook of Organic Chemistry. New 
York, NY: McGraw Hill. 
DE LA GARZA, F. 1982. "The modeling of wine 
filtrations." MS thesis, Davis, CA: University of 
California. 
DE LA GARZA, F., and R. BOULTON. 1984. "The 
modeling of wine filtrations." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
35:189-195. 
DESCOUT, J. J. 1989. "Utilisation des metaux frittes 
dans la filtration des vins." Rev. d Venol. 
51:11-17. 
DESCOUT, J. J., J. L. BORDIER, J. LAURENTY, and G. 
GUIMBERTEAU. 1976. "Contribution a l'etude des 
phenomenes de colmatage lors de la filtration 
des vins sur filtre ecran." Conn. Vigne Vin 
10:93-123. 
DUBOURDIEC, D., A. LEFEBRE, and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 
1976. "Influence d'un traitement physique 
d'iltradispersion sur la filtraton des vines." Conn. 
Vigne Vin. 10:73-92 
ESCUDIER, J. L., and M. MOUTOUNET. 1987. "Filtra­
tion tangentielle et stabilisation tartrique des 
vins. 2. Apport de la microfiltration tangentielle 
dans la stabilisation tartrique d'un vin rouge." 
Rev. Fr. Oenol. 109:44-50. 
ESCUDIER, J. L., M. MOUTOUNET, and P. BENARD. 
1987. "Filtration tangentielle et stabilisation tar­
trique des vins. 1. Influence de l'ultrafiltration 
sur la cinetique de cristallisation du bitartrate de 
potassium des vins." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 108:52-57. 
ESSER, K. D. 1972. "Zur Messung der 
Filtrierbarkeit." Monats. Brauer. 25:145-151. 
EYBEN, D., andJ. P. DUTHOY. 1979. "The filterability 
of wort and beer." Mast. Brew. Assoc. Amer. Tech. 
Quart. 16:135-141. 
FEUILLAT, M. 1987. "Stabilisation et clarification des 
vins: Aspects colloidaux." Rev. dVenol. 45:7-17. 
FEUILLAT, M., C. CHARPENTIER, G. PICCA, and P. 
BERNARD. 1988. "Production des colloides par 
levures dans Ie vin mousseux elabore selon la 
methode champenoise." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 
111:36-45. FLORES, J. H., D. A. HEATHERBELL, J. C. Hsu, and B. 
T. WATSON. 1988. "Ultrafiltration of White Ries­
ling juice: Effect of oxidation and pre-UF juiCt~ 
treatment on flux, composition and stability." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 39:180-187. 
FULLER, W. L., and H. W. BERG. 1965. "Treatment 
of white wine with nylon 66." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
16:212-218. 
FUSSNEGGER, B., R. MAURER, and J. DETERlNG. 1992. 
"Unlosliche, komplexbildende Polymere als po­
tentielle Substitutionsprodukte fur Kaliumhexa­
cyanoferratOI) zur Schwermetallverminderung in 
Wein." Wein-Wissen. 47:8-23. 
GAILLARD, M. 1984. "La filtration finale des vins sur 
membranes." Vignes Vin 326:22-41. 
GAILLARD, M. 1989. "Essais de microfiltration tan­
gentielle de vins avec Ie filtre Memcor." Rev. des 
Oenol. 51:65-68. 
GAILLARD, M., and J. L. BERGER. 1984. "Ultrafiltra­
tion et microfiltration tangentielle. Resultats 
d'essais sur mout et vin." Rev. Fr. dVenol. 
95:39-62. 
GEOFFROY, P., and J. PERJN. 1962. "La filtration." 
Vigneron Champenois 83:33-39. 
HARRIS, M. B. 1964. "Grape juice clarification b} 
filtration." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 15:54-62. 
HAUROWlTZ, F. 1963. The Chemistry and Function oJ 
Proteins, 2nd ed. New York: Academic Press. 
HERMANS, P. H., and H. L. BREDEE. 1936. "Princi­
ples of the mathematical treatment of constant­
pressure filtration."]' Soc. Chem. Ind. 55:1-4. 
Hsc, J. C., D. A. HEATHERBELL, J. H. FLORES, and B. 
T. WATSON. 1987. "Heat unstable proteins in 
grape JUice and wine: 2. Characterization and 
removal by ultrafiltration." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
38:17-22. 
JAKOB, L. 1965. "Bedeutung und verhaltensweise 
der sogenannten natrium- und calcium-Be­
ntonite in der kellerwirtschaft." Weinblatt. 
59:613-619. 
JAKOB, L. 1968. "Eiweissgehalt und Bentonitscho­
nung von Wein." Wein-Wissen. 23:255-274. 
JENNESS, R. 1970. "Protein composition of milk." 
In, Milk Proteins-Chemistry and Molecular Biology. 
H. A. McKenzie, Ed. New York: Academic Press. 
KER.'\i, K K, and K WCCHERPFENNIG. 1991. "En­
tfernung von Eisen, Kupfer und Zink aus Weinen 
mit Einenchelatharz- einen Alternative zur 
Blauschonung." Weinwissen. 46:69-77. KER.1\!, K K, K WUCHERPFENNIG, H. DIETRICH, and 
O. SCHMIDT. 1992. "Chelatbildner zur Schwer­
mallentfernung." Weinwirt.-Technik 5:45-50. 
LAY, H., and W. LEIB. 1988. "Uber das Vorkommen 
der Metalle Zink, Cadmium, B1ei und Kupfer in 
Most, Wein und in den bei der weinbereitung 
anfallenden nebenproduckten." Wein-Wissen 
43:107-115. 
LAy, H., and E. LEMPERLE. 1981. "Kupfergehalt auf 
Weintrauben, in Traubenmost und in Wein nach 
anwendung Kupferhaltiger Peronospora-fungi­
zide." Weinwirt. 117:908-912. 
LEMPERLE, E. 1989. "Wirkstoffruckstande nach Fun­
gizidanwendung." Weinwirt.-Technik 125 
(3):14-26. 
LIGHT, W. G., L. A MOONEY, H. C. CHU, and S. K 
WOOD. 1986. "Alcohol removal from beer by 
reverse osmosis." Am. Inst. Chem. Engrs. Symp. 
Series, Vol 82, (250): 1-8. 
LLAUBERES, R. M. 1990. "Structure of an extracellu­
lar f3 D-glucan from Pediococcus sp., a wine lactic 
bacteria." Carbohydr. Res. 203:103-107. 
LLAUBERES, R. M., D. DUBOURDIEU, andj.-C. VILLET­
TAZ. 1987. "Exocellular polysaccharide from 
Saccharomyces in wine." J. Sci. Food Agric. 
41:277-286. 
LOUBSER, G. L., and R. D. SANDERSON. 1986. "The 
removal of copper and iron from wine using a 
chelating resin." S. Afric.J. Enol. Vitic. 7:47-51. 
LUDEMANN, A. 1987. "Wine clarification with a 
crossflow microfiltration system." Am. J. Enol. 
Vitic. 38:228-235. 
MEGLIOLI, G., A. BATTEZZATI, and C. MARCHESINI. 
1983. "L'indice di filtrabilita: Principi teorici ed 
applicazioni." Ind. Bevande 12:445-450. 
MENNETT, R. H., and T. o. M. NAKAYAMA. 1970a. 
"The adsorption of hydroxybenzoic acids by 
poly-N-vinyl pyrrolidone." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
21:169-175. 
ME:-JNETT, R. H., and T. o. M. NAKAY&\1A. 1970b. 
"Temperature dependency of tannin adsorption 
by poly-N-vinyl pyrrolidone." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
21:162-167. 
MILLER, G. C., j. M. A\10N, R. L. GIBSON, and R. F. 
SIMPSON. 1985. "Loss of wine aroma attributable 
to protein stabilization with bentonite or ultra 
filtration." Aust. Grapegrower & Winemaker 
(4):46-50. 
MOBIUS, C. H., and S. GORTGES. 1976. "Bentonit zur 
Most- und Weinbehandlung." Pts 1-3. Deut. The Fining and Clarification of Wines 317 
Weinbau 27:1081-1082, 28:1103-1105, 
29:1136-1139. 
MORRIS, T. M. 1984. "Particle size analysis of beer 
solids using a Coulter Counter." J. Inst. Brew. 
90: 162- 166. 
NIEFIND, H.j., and FJ. SCHMITZ. 1981. "New process 
for alcohol reduction of beer through dialysis". 
Euro. Brew. Conv. Proc. 18th Congr. Copenhagen. 
599-606. 
OECHSLE, D., and T. SCHNEIDER. 1992. "Gerbstoffe 
entfernen mit PVPP." Weinwirt. Technik 5:54-58. 
OH, H., andj. E. HOFF. 1987. "pH dependence of 
complex formation between condensed tannins 
and proteins." J. Food Sci. 52:1267-1269. 
OH, H.,j. E. HOFF, and L. A. HAFF. 1985. "Immobi­
lized condensed tannins and their interaction 
with proteins." J. Food Sci. 50: 1652-1654. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A A\1ERINE. 1988. Methods for 
Analysis of Musts and Wines. 2nd ed. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons. 
OUGH, C. S., E. A CROWELL, and j. BENZ. 1982. 
"Metal content of California wines." J. Food Sci. 
47:825-828. 
PARENT, y. 0., and W. A. WELSH. 1986. "Davison 
protein removal system development." Practical 
Winery 7(3):80-83. 
PERI, C. 1987. "Les techniques de filtration tangen­
tielle des mouts et des vins." Bull. OJ.V. 
60:789-800. 
PERI, C., M. RIVA, and P. DEClO. 1988. "Crossflow 
membrane filtration of wines: Comparison of 
performance of ultrafiltration, microfiltration 
and intermediate cut-off membranes." Am. J. 
Enol. Vitic. 39:162-168. 
PlRACCI, A 1988. "I test di filtrabilita: Alcune perp­
lessita da evidenze sperimentali." Ind. Bevande. 
17:305-311. 
POIRIER, D., F. MARis, M. BENNASAR, j. GILLOT, D. 
GARCERA, and B. TORADO DE IA FUENTE. 1984. 
"Clarification et stabilisation des vins par filtra­
tion tangentielle sur membranes minerales." Ind. 
Aliment. Agric. 101:481-490. 
POSTEL, W., B. MEIER, and R. MARKERT. 1986a. 
"Einfluss verschiedener Behandlungsstoffe auf 
den Gehalt des Weins an Mengen- und 
Spurenelementen. I. Bentonit." Mitt. Kloster. 
36:20-27. 318 The Fining and Clarification of Wines 
POSTEL, W., B. MEIER, and R. MARKERT. 1986b. 
"Einfluss verschiendener Behanlungsstoffe auf 
den Gehalt des Weins an Mengen- und 
Spurenelementen. II. Aktivkohle." Mitt. Kloster. 
37:219-226. 
POSTEL, W., B. MEIER, and R. MARKERT. 1987. 
"Einfluss verschiendener Behanlungsstoffe auf 
den Gehalt des Weins an Mengen- und 
Spurenelementen. III. Kieselguhr und Perlite." 
Mitt. Kloster. 37:219-226. 
POWERS, J. H., C. W. NAGEL, and K. WELLER. 1988. 
"Protein removal from a wine by immobilized 
grape proanthocyanidins." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
39:117-120. 
PCRCHAS, D. B. 1967. Industrial Filtration of Liquids. 
Cleveland, OH, USA, CRC Press. 
RAiBLE, K., and H. Bk"lTLEON. 1968. "Uber die SERRANO, M., D. DUBOURDIEU, and P. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1982. "Mise au point d'un test 
de filtration sur plaques utilisable en oenologie.'· 
Sci. Aliments 2:313-328. 
SERRANO, M., A. C. VANl\IER, and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 
1988. "Clarification des vins par filtration en 
flux tangential (ultrafiltration). Incidence sur la 
composition chimique et qualites organolep­
tiques. Evolution des produits au cours du vieil­
lissement." Conn. Vigne Vin 22:49-71. 
SERRANO, M., B. PONTE:--IS, and P. RIBEREAc-GAYON. 
1992. "Etude de differentes membranes de mi­
crofiltration tangentielle. Comparison avec la 
filtration sur precouche de diatomees." J. Int. 
Sci. Vigne Vin 16:97-116. 
SIDDIQUI, M. K. H. 1968. Bleaching Earths, Chapter 3. 
Oxford, England: Pergamon Press. 
Filtrationseigenschaften von Bier." 
Brauer. 21 :277-285. Monats. SINGLETON, V. L. 1964. "Application of charcoal in 
wine clarification." Wines & Vines 45:March: 
RAl\KINE, B. c., and W. W. EMERSON. 1963. "Wine 
clarification and protein removal by Bentonite." 
J. Sci. Food Agric. 14:687-689. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON, J., and E. PEYNAUD. 1961. Traite 
d 'Oenologie, Vol 2, p. 742. Paris: Beranger. 
RODRIGUEZ, J. L. P., A. WEISS, and G. LAGALY. 1977. 
"A natural clay organic complex from Andalu­
sian black earth." Clay and Clay Minerals 
25:243-251. 
ROMAT, H.,J.:J. DESCOUT, and G. GUIMBERTEAU. 1986. 
"Etude de l'utilization des parois metaliques 
pore uses frittees pour la filtration des vins." 
Conn. Vigne Vin 20:215-231. 
ROSSI,J. A., JR., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1966. "Flavor 
effects and adsorptive properties of purified 
fractions of grape-seed phenols." Am. J. Enol. 
Vitic. 17:240-246. 
SALGUES, M., C. DCMON, and F. MARIs. 1982. "Etude 
de quelques conditions influencant la filtration 
des vins sur membrane." Conn. Vigne Vin 
16:257-269. 
SAYWELL, L. G. 1934a. "Clarification of vinegar." 
Ind. Eng. Chem. 26:379-385. 
SAYWELL, L. G. 1934b. "Clarification of wine." Ind. 
Eng. Chern. 26:981-982. 
SCHMITT, A., H. KOHLER, P. MILTENBERGER, and K. 
CURSCHMA."Il\. 1989. "Vergleich verschiedener 
cross-flow Filtrationssysteme." Weinwirt. Technik 
1:7-14. 29-31. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1967. "Adsorption of natural phe­
nols from beer and wine." Mast. Brew. Assoc. Am. 
Tech. Quart. 4:245-253. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and A. C. NOBLE. 1976. "Wine 
flavor and phenolic substances." In Phenolic, Sul­
fur, and Nitrogen Compounds in Food Flavors, G. 
Charlambous and I. Katz, Eds, Am. Chern. Soc. 
Symp. Series, Number 26:47-70. Washington, 
DC: Am. Chern. Soc. 
SPERRY, D. R. 1917. "The principles of filtration." 
Chem. Met. Eng. 17:161-166. 
SUDRAUD, R., and J. CAYE. 1985. "Observations sur 
la composition et Ie controle d'efficacite des 
bentonites." Rev. Fr. Genol. 97:21-24. 
TANIGUCHI, M., N. KO~"II, and T. KOBAYASHI. 1987. 
"High-concentration cultivation of lactic acid 
bacteria in fermentor with cross-flow filtration." 
J. Ferment. Technol. 65:179-184. 
TERCEL], D. 1965. "Etude des composes azotes du 
vin." Ann. Technol. Agric. 14:307-319. 
THOMPSON, D. 1991. "The application of osmotic 
distillation for the wine industry." Aust. Grape­
grower Winemaker 328: 11 -14. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L. 1976. "Les colloides glu­
cidiques soluble des mouts et des vins." Conn. 
Vigne Vin 10:193-226. 
VILLETTAZ, J.-C. 1988. "Les colloides du mout et du 
vin." Rev. Fr. Genol. 111:23-27. WAGENER, W. W. 1970. "Effects of fining agents on 
the settling of Riesling and Steen musts of the 
1970 vintage." Die Wynboer 466July:18-20. 
WATANABE, T., T. MORI, N. SAKATA, K YAMASHITA, T. 
TOSA, I. CHIBATA, Y. NUNOKAWA, and S. SHIINOKI. 
1979. "Continuous fining of sake with immobi­
lized tannin." Hakkokogaku 57:141-147. 
WATERS, E. j., W. WALLACE, M. E. TATE, and P. 
WILLIAMS. 1993. "Isolation and partial character­
ization of a natural haze protective factor from 
wine." ]. Agric. Food Chem. 41:724-730. 
WEETALL, H. H.,j. T. ZELCO, and L. E. BAILEY. 1984. 
"A new method for the stabilization of white 
wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 35:212-215. 
WELSH, W. A., and Y. O. PARENT. 1985. "New pro­
tein removal process." Practical Winery 
6(1):34-38. 
WILL, F., W. PFEIFER, and H. DIETRICH. 1991. "The 
importance of colloids for wine quality." Vitic. 
Enol. Sci. 46:78-84. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K, R. AQUILLINA, and R. ANKELE. 
1975. "Gelatine and Kieselsol for treatment of 
grape juice and wine." Proc. 4th Inti. Enology 
Symposium. Valencia, Spain, pp. 95-110. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K, and H. DIETRICH. 1989. "The The Fining and Clan fication of Wines 319 
importance of colloids for clarification of musts 
and wines." Vitic. Enol. Sci. 44:1-12. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K, H. DIETRICH, and R. FAUTH. 
1984. "Uber den Einfluss von Polysacchariden 
auf die Klarung und Filterfahigkeit von Weinen 
unter besonderer Beruck-sichtigung des Botrytis­
glucans." Deut. LebensRund. 80:38-44. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K, and P. POSSMANN. 1972. "Be­
itrag zur kom binierten Gelatin-Kieslsol­
schonung." Fluss. Obst. 2:48-52. 
WURDIG, G., and R. WOLLER. 1989. Chemie des Weines. 
Stuttgart, Germany: Ulmer. 
YOKOTSUKA, K, K NOZUKI, and T. KUSHIDA. 1983. 
"Turbidity formation caused by interaction of 
must proteins with wine tannins." ]. Ferm. Tech­
nol.61:413-416. 
YOKOTSUKA, K, and V. L. SINGLETON. 1987. "Inter­
active precipitation between graded peptides 
from gelatin and specific grape tannin fractions 
in wine-like model solutions." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
38:199-206. 
ZIMMER, E., C.-D. PATZ, and H. DIETRICH. 1992. 
"Direct determination of molecular weight dis­
tribution of high molecular substances in wines 
andjuices." Vitic.Enol. Sci. 47:121-129. CHAPTER 8 
THE PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL STABILITY 
OF WINE 
The major physical instability in bottled wines 
continues to be the precipitation of the tar­
taric salts, potassium bitartrate, and calcium 
tartrate. Prevention of this precipitation in 
bottled wines is desirable because consumers 
find it objectionable and an indication of poor 
quality control. Precipitation of these salts can 
be due to one or more reasons, such as the 
incomplete stabilization in the cellar, the use 
of a nonrepresentative sample for the stability 
test, the use of an inappropriate stability test, 
the removal of colloidal materials at the point 
of final filtration that have previously inhibited 
the preCIpItation and natural chemical 
changes, especially the polymerization of phe­
nolic pigments. The initial instability is caused 
by supersaturated levels in juices that are aug­
mented by the decrease in solubility due to 
ethanol and the low temperatures used for 
wine storage. 
With respect to the precipitation of tartrate 
salts, wines are still treated in a manner that 
results in incomplete precipitation, even after 
being held at low temperatures for five or 
more days. A number of alternative crystalliza-tion and contacting methods have been devel­
oped and these are reviewed below in Section 
A.4. 
Other common but sporadic physical insta­
bilities include the precipitation of colloids 
such as the protein, peptide-tannin, and 
polysaccharide hazes. The pinking of certain 
white wines, the rapid browning of some white 
and rose wines and oxidation of all wines are 
examples of chemical changes and these are 
discussed in further detail in Chapter 10. 
The addresses of equipment companies 
mentioned in this chapter can be found in 
Appendix I. 
A. TARTRATE STABILITY 
1. Factors Influencing Solubility 
Grape juices display a wide variation in potas­
sium and tartaric concentrations, with lesser 
variation in the calcium content. The levels in 
any particular juice depend primarily on the 
season, the level of maturity, and the cultivar, 
with secondary effects due to the rootstock 
320 and soil conditions. The tartaric concentration 
in a given cultivar is essentially independent of 
temperature effects during the growing season 
and seems to be influenced only by synthesis 
and berry expansion during maturation. The 
potassium concentration in berries is more 
dependent on the growing conditions, the 
rootstock, and the competition for transport 
into the developing canes and leaves. The 
growing conditions include potassium avail­
ability, soil moisture and composition, and the 
influence of climate on the rate of maturation 
and the time on the vine. Unless ion ex­
changed, the potassium content of the wine 
reflects that of the must, whereas higher cal­
cium can be due to pickup during calcium 
carbonate treatment or contact with concrete 
tanks. 
The influence of potassium on the solution 
equilibria in a wine is complicated by its role 
in establishing the pH and the ionic strength 
(and therefore the ion activities and the frac­
tion of tartaric acid that is in the bitartrate 
form). The solubility of potassium bitartrate in 
ethanol solutions has been determined by Berg 
and Keefer (1958) shown in Table 8-1, and 
shows a 60% decrease as the temperature is 
decreased from 20°C to O°C at 12% vlv 
ethanol. The effect of ethanol is to reduce the 
solubility by almost 40% for each increase of 
10%v/v at 20°C. The solubility of calcium 
tartrate under similar conditions was deter­
mined by Berg and Keefer (1959) and displays 
almost a 50% decrease from 20°C to O°C as 
shown in Table 8-2. The effect of ethanol is to 
reduce the solubility by almost 30% for each The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 321 
rise of 10% v Iv. The influence of pH is to 
determine the fraction of the tartaric acid that 
exists in the bitartrate and tartrate ion forms. 
These fractions are presented in Table 8-3 and 
are calculated based on the pK values for an 
ethanol content of 12% v Iv rather than the 
more usual aqueous values. The equations used 
for such calculations are discussed in more 
detail in Chapter 15. 
The fraction in the bitartrate form rises 
from 43 to 71 % over the range 3.0 to 4.0 with 
a maximum of 73% at a pH of 3.8. The 
fraction that is in the tartrate form rises from 
1 to 19% over the same range, doubling be­
tween the pH values 3.7 and 4.0. 
The range in some mineral contents of 
commercial California wines is presented in 
Table 8-4 (Ough et al. 1982) and a compre­
hensive report of potassium and calcium con­
tents is given by Berg et al. (1979). 
2. Stability Criteria for Potassium 
Bitartrate 
Although many juices are saturated with potas­
sium bitartrate (and crystals have even been 
observed in the cells of grape berries), the 
concern arises from the reduction of solubility 
due to the formation of ethanol and the po­
tential for precipitation when wines are held 
at lower temperatures. 
In general, the species present in the pre­
cipitate are not in stoichiometric proportions, 
and there is considerable evidence by both 
crystal shape and composition, of interactions 
Table 8-1. Solubility of potassium bitartrate (g I L) in model solutions. 
Ethanol content (%v Iv) 
Temperature ee) 0 10 12 14 20 
0 2.25 1.26 1.11 0.98 0.68 
5 2.66 1.58 1.49 1.24 0.86 
10 3.42 2.02 1.81 1.63 1.10 
15 4.17 2.45 2.25 2.03 1.51 
20 4.92 3.08 2.77 2.51 1.82 
SOUTce of data: Berg and Keefer (I958). 322 The Physical and Chemical Stamlity of Wine 
Table 8-2. Solubility of calcium tartrate (g I L) in model solutions. 
Temperature (OC) 0 10 
0 1.56 0.65 
5 1.82 0.76 
10 2.13 0.89 
15 2.48 1.05 
20 2.90 1.24 
Source of data: Berg and Keefer (]959). 
with other phenolic and colloidal entities 
(Rodriguez-Clemente and Correa-Gorospe 
1988). 
Wines have been shown to be capable of 
holding considerably more of this salt than 
model solutions of the same ionic strength 
and ethanol content (Berg and Keefer 1958; 
Usseglio-Tomassetet al. 1992). Some red wines, 
at stability, contain almost 40% more of this 
salt than comparable white wines (DeSoto and 
Yamada 1963; Berg and Akiyoshi 1971). This 
enhanced solubility is most likely due to com­
plexing of the bitartrate (and perhaps tartrate) 
ions with proteins in white wines and possibly 
more extensively with the pigment-tannin 
complexes of red wines (Pilone and Berg 1965; 
Balakian and Berg 1968; Kantz and Singleton 
1990). There is little evidence that potassium 
ions are involved in such complex formation 
as they show almost no chelation in solution. 
There are two basic approaches to estab­
lishing the stability values of these salts in 
wines. The first, developed by Berg and Keefer, 
Table 8-3. Fraction of tartaric acid in the ion 
forms at various pH values. 
% % % 
U ndissociated Bitartrate Tartrate 
pH Acid Ion Ion 
2.8 66.6 32.8 0.55 
3.0 55.5 43.3 1.15 
3.2 43.7 54.0 2.28 
3.4 32.4 63.4 4.24 
3.6 22.6 70.0 7.43 
3.8 14.8 72.9 12.26 
4.0 9.19 71.7 19.1 
4.2 5.38 66.5 28.1 Ethanol content (%v Iv) 
12 14 20 
0.54 0.46 0.27 
0.64 0.54 0.32 
0.75 0.63 0.38 
0.88 0.75 0.45 
1.04 0.88 0.53 
was to attempt to describe the solubility of the 
salts in terms of observable concentration 
products by allowing for the effects of pH, 
ethanol content, and temperature and making 
a general assumption about the ionic strength 
of all wines. Later, workers developed recom­
mended concentration product values for each 
wine type, but this assumed that all wines of a 
given type had the same holding capacity for 
these salts. 
The alternative approach addresses each 
wine individually and involves the establish­
ment of ideal conditions for crystals to grow if 
the wine contains more of the salt than it is 
capable of holding at that temperature. This 
approach, referred to as the crystallization rate 
approach, provides a result that is wine-specific 
and eliminates the need for generalizing as­
sumptions concerning wines within a given 
type. The effects due to the ionic strength and 
phenolics are naturally incorporated into the 
particular result. 
a. Solubility Products and 
Concentration Products 
The equilibrium relationship between the ac­
tivity of ions and their solubility at any temper­
ature is usually referred to as the solubilit) 
product (SP), or Ksp-
For potassium bitartrate this is: 
where (\'1 is the aCtiVIty coefficient for ions 
carrying a single charge in the solution, while The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 323 
Table 8-4. Alkali metal content of some commercial California wines. 
Potassium 
Statistic (mg/L) 
Average 803 
Standard Deviation 254 
Average 980 
Stardard Deviation 445 
Average 1102 
Stardard Deviation 325 
Average 808 
Stardard Deviation 258 
Source: From Ough et al. (J 982). 
for calcium tartrate it is: 
where £x2 is the activity coefficient of the ions 
carrying a double charge in the solution. 
Berg and Keefer (1958, 1959) and others 
since have used the simplified forms of the 
Debye-Huckel equation for the estimation of 
the activity coefficients. A more detailed de­
scription of this equation, its use, and its limi­
tations can be found in Chapter 15. 
These authors used this concept to establish 
a simplified product, K;p that for potassium 
bitartrate is: Sodium Calcium Magnesium 
(mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) 
White table wine (138 samples) 
51 88 106 
38 24 24 
Rose wine (9 samples) 
45 84 98 
24 18 21 
Red table wine (124 samples) 
53 79 129 
42 34 26 
Sparkling wine (16 samples) 
62 90 86 
30 18 14 
by using generalized values of the activity co­
efficients, based on an average ionic strength 
of 38 mM/L. This concentration product, or 
CP, was determined for model solutions of 
ethanol and potassium bitartrate at different 
temperatures. However, when they analyzed 
wines that had been held at -4°C for an 
extended period, they found that the observed 
CP values were much higher than would be 
expected from the solubility of potassium 
bitartrate in model solutions. Further, the 
measured CP values of the wines were a func­
tion of wine type, indicating the role of other 
factors in the tartrate holding capacity of wines 
(see Table 8-5 for potassium bitartrate CP val­
ues and Table 8-6 for the corresponding cal­
cium tartrate values). 
Table 8-5. Comparison of measured and predicted potassium content in wines (data of Berg and Keefer 1958). 
Concentration Solubility Potassium 
Product Product (mg/L) 
Wine (held at -4°C) (at 20°C) Prediction from 
type X 104 X 104 Actual Ksp 
Semillon 1.80 1.51 897 1111 
Semillon 1.69 1.54 741 997 
Semillon 1.73 1.51 663 854 
Grey Riesling 1.59 1.66 936 1443 
Pinot blanc 1.64 1.64 819 1209 
Rose 1.67 1.66 741 1088 324 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
Table 8-6. Comparison of measured and predicted calcium content in wines (data of Berg and Keefer 1959). 
Concentration Solubility Calcium 
(mg/L) Product Product 
Wine (held at -4°C) (at 20°C) Predicted from 
type X 106 
Sauterne 2.00 
Red Chianti 5.00 
Sherry 1.13 
Sherry 0.918 
White Port 1.53 
Red Port 2.69 
DeSoto and Yamada (I963) extended the 
CP concept by determining the final CP values 
for several types of wines and reported the 
highest found and their recommended CP val­
ues for various wine types (Table 8-7). This 
work was, however, primarily related to forti­
fied wine styles with only 20 of their 72 sam­
ples being table wines, and of those only four 
were white wines. Their recommended values 
for table wines have been used extensively in 
the past as criteria for both the stability of the 
potassium and calcium salts. The variance of 
the calcium tartrate values is generally twice 
those of the corresponding potassium prod­
ucts, and this is probably due to the complex­
ing of calcium ions in addition to the previ­
ously mentioned com pie xing of the tartrates. 
The distribution of the concentration product 
values for the white and red table wines are 
not significantly different from each other, 
even though different mean values were rec-X 106 Actual Ksp 
1.07 76 39 
1.04 92 20 
0.356 84 26 
0.361 68 21 
0.366 56 13 
0.361 76 10 
ommended. For some wine types, the recom­
mended values are 10 to 15% above the sam­
ple means, while for others they are similarly 
below the mean values. 
The application of these values to wines 
made from other cultivars and grown in other 
regions has led to poor results, as might be 
expected, because of the variations in chemi­
cal and physical composition. This is especially 
true of the table wine values which are based 
on a few samples of mixed-cultivar wines. The 
differences between the mean values of dif­
ferent wine types are presumably due to phe­
nolic interactions with the tartrate pool. The 
cultivars used in the production of wines in 
California (and elsewhere) today bear little 
resemblance to those that were used for the 
wines at that time. 
One example of the large variation in the 
CP values found in wines from different re­
gions is the study by Pilone and Berg (I965). 
Table 8-7. Recommended concentration products values (adapted from DeSoto and Yamada 1963 ).1 
Potassium bitartrate 
CP X 104 
1.64 (/1- = 1.69, SD = 0.19) 
3.00 (/1- = 2.93, SD = 0.33) 
1.05 (/1-= 0.86, SD = 0.26) 
2.00 (/1- = 2.05, SD = 0.28) 
1.71 (/1- = 1.39, SD = 0.23) 
IlL-average, SD ~ standard deviation. White table wines (4 samples) 
Red table wines (16 samples) 
White Port wine (6 samples) 
Red Port wine (16 samples) 
Sherry (17 samples) Calcium tartrate 
CP X 106 
2.00 ( /1-= 1.84, SD = 0.38) 
4.00 ( /1-= 3.56, SD = 1.07) 
1.55 (/1- = 1.54, SD = 0.28) 
2.75 (/1- = 3.20, SD = 0.65) 
1.25 ( /1-= 1.58, SD = 0.25) The values reported for 10 red wines held at 
+ 1°C for approximately 80 days averaged 2.45 
(SD of 0.78) X 10- 6 while those for 10 white 
wines averaged 0.83 (SD of 0.20) X 10- 6• The 
red wine values were approximately 83% of 
the recommended values of DeSoto and Ya­
mada (1963) and the white wine values were 
almost 50% of their values. 
A more comprehensive survey of the CP 
values of nearly 1000 wines of different culti­
vars and types and from seven regions of Cali­
fornia was reported by Berg and Akiyoshi 
(1971). They held bentonited samples of the 
wines for 21 days at + 1°C with the addition of 
4 giL of potassium bitartrate seed crystals. 
They found that the unseeded samples gave 
CP values for white and red table wines essen­
tially the same as the recommended values of 
DeSoto and Yamada (1963), but approximately 
twice those of the corresponding seeded sam­
ples. This shows that actual stability is not 
achieved at the recommended c.p levels. With 
the white wines there was a 20% variation in 
the CP value between the cultivars and for the 
red wines this was closer to 30%. Similar find­
ings were reported by Haushofer and Szeme­
liker (1973), who found effects due to ultra­
sonic treatment, seeding, and glass crystal ad­
ditions on both the rate and extent of the 
crystallization. 
The CP criterion is of limited value for the 
above reasons and should not be used to de­
termine tartrate stability in wines. It has been 
presented here only to give a better under­
standing of the problems related to tartrate 
stability and to provide a historical perspec­
tive. 
The relative supersaturation approach, de­
veloped by Rhein and Kappes (1979), has the 
same limitations due to differences in the 
holding capacity of different wines. They sug­
gested that supersaturation levels of 20% 
(based on the solubility in ethanol-water solu­
tions) could exist in apparently stable wines 
and much higher levels were needed before 
crystals would form. The limitations of the 
supersaturation criterion are discussed in more 
detail in Section 3.d. The Physical and Chemical Stamlity of Wine 325 
b. Crystallization Rate Phenomena 
The crystallization of potassium bitartrate from 
wine is generally limited by the low concentra­
tion of nuclei and the poor conditions for the 
formation of others on which the salt can 
grow. The rate at which new nuclei develop is 
strongly dependant on the number of existing 
nuclei, their size, the degree of supersatura­
tion, and level of fluid turbulence. Supersatu­
ration is the condition in which a solution has 
a concentration above its solubility limit. The 
rate equation for the growth of nuclei (and 
the loss of salt from solution) can be written: 
where C and C are the concentrations of w s 
potassium bitartrate in the wine and at satura-
tion; n is the agitation rate; Nand Dp are the 
concentration and particle diameter of the 
nuclei· and k is the rate constant for nucle­
ation. 'Values "of the nucleation order a have 
been estimated to be between 4.0 and 6.0 and 
reported to be 4.49 in a white wine (Nishino 
and Tanahashi 1987). The strong dependence 
of the nucleation rate on the level of supersat­
uration together with the temperature effect 
on the saturation levels cause the spontaneous 
formation of nuclei to be favored as the tem­
perature is lowered. While some solutes re­
quire a critical level of supersaturation to exist 
before spontaneous nucleation can occur, this 
has not been shown to be true for either of 
the tartrate salts. 
Once a significant number of nuclei are 
present, the slowest step in crystallization be­
comes the rate at which the crystals can grow. 
This growth rate may be controlled by either 
diffusion of the species through a boundary 
layer adjacent to the crystal surface or by their 
movement across the crystal surface to the 
growing edge. The rate of solute depletion 
when this diffusion is rate limiting can be 
written: 326 The Physical and Chemical Stallility of Wine 
where k d is the growth rate constant; A, is the 
surface area of the crystals; D is the diffusivity 
of the slower solute (presumably the larger 
tartrate ions); A is the boundary layer thick­
ness. Diffusion-controlled regions have been 
identified during the crystallization of potas­
sium bitartrate from wines (Dunsford and 
Boulton 1981). The rate of diffusion is first 
order with respect to the concentration dif­
ference between the wine and the crystal sur­
face. During this period the concentration will 
follow an exponential decrease with respect to 
time. 
In contrast, the migration of species over 
the crystal surface until they reach the grow­
ing interface can become a limiting process. 
The rate of this surface integration step often 
follows a higher-order relationship and the 
surface integration rate can be written: 
where ks is the rate constant for surface inte­
gration, A is the crystal surface area; and n is 
the order of the surface reaction. An order of 
two has been identified for this reaction with 
potassium bitartrate during the later stages of 
wine crystallizations (Dunsford and Boulton 
1981). Typical crystallization curves for a Sauvi­
gnon blanc wine seeded with 20 giL of seed 
crystals at three temperatures are shown in 
Figure 8-1. The crystallization curves of dif­
ferent wines, (a Sauvignon blanc, a Cabernet 
Sauvignon, and a Pinot noir wine) seeded with 
crystals at 20 giL and held at O°C are shown 
in Figure 8-2. 
One important feature of all of the rate 
equations for crystallization is that they reduce 
to zero when the wine concentration reaches 
the saturation level. It is this aspect that can be 
used to determine the saturation levels in indi­
vidual wines and it has been used to develop a 
test in which ideal crystallization is encour­
aged by employing a large concentration of 
nuclei in a well-mixed condition at the tem­
perature of interest (Boulton 1983; Vialatte 
1984). The final equilibrium is then the true 
saturation condition at the test temperature 
for the wine being considered. This condition 
represents the composition which cannot sup­
port the growth of any crystals of the salt, even 
under ideal crystal conditions, taking into ac­
count the complexing associated with other 
components. It is used to establish saturation 
conditions on a wine-by-wine basis and should 
not be correlated or used for other wines of 
the same type. 
BOO ,...----------------, 
Fig. 8-1. The influence of temperature on 
the crystallization of potassium bitartrate from 
a Sauvignon blanc wine. ~ 
~ .... u 
~ 720 
640 
560 
4BO 
400 
0 6 • +2 C 
0 o C 
• -2 C 
12 1B 24 30 
Time (Mirutes) 1100 
1000 
(jj 900 .3 
Q) u c III BOO .... u 
~ 0 700 0 
600 
500 
0 6 12 1B 24 
Time (Minutes) 
3. Stability Testing for Potassium 
Bitartrate 30 
There are three commonly used criteria for 
potassium bitartrate stability in wines. These 
are (0 The recommended CP values of 
DeSoto and Yamada (I963), Berg and Akiyoshi 
(I971), or similar determinations; (2) the 
hold-cold or freeze test, in which the sample is 
chilled to about (or below) its freezing point, 
held for a period of time, and, after thawing, 
visually checked for the presence of crystals; 
and (3) the conductivity test, which looks for 
the change in the conductivity of a seeded 
sample at a designated temperature to indi­
cate instability and determine the final com­
position that provides saturation conditions. 
A number of semiempirical alternative tests 
based on the addition of seeds and the mea­
surement of conductivity have been proposed. 
The first of these is the method using 5 giL at 
4°C (Muller and Wiirdig 1978). This was later 
modified so that the change in conductivity 
observed due to the dissolving of seed crystals 
during the test at 20°C was used to estimate 
the saturation temperature of the wine 
(Wiirdig et al. 1980a, 1980b, 1983, 1985). This 
was then extended to a 30°C test by Maujean 
et al. (I 985). These tests will be discussed in 
more detail in Section 3.d. 0 
• 
0 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 327 
Sauvignon 
blanc 
Pinot 
noir 
Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
Fig. 8-2. The crystallization of potas­
sium bitartrate from different wines at 
O°c. 
a. Recommended CP Values 
The concentration products are determined 
by analyzing the wine for pH, potassium, and 
tartaric acid concentrations. These are then 
expressed on a molar basis and the fraction of 
the tartaric acid that is present as the bitar­
trate ion is determined from tables or by com­
putation. The molar product of the potassium 
and bitartrate concentrations is then the CP 
value. 
Concentration product values that have 
been recommended according to wine type 
were considered to be those of stable wines. 
They were obtained by averaging the CP val­
ues for each wine type after storage at ambient 
temperature (21°C to 29°C) for between 16 
and 28 months (DeSoto and Yamada 1963). 
The basis for these values is considered in 
detail in Section A.2.a of this chapter. 
The use of such generalized values for wines 
today is questionable at best due to the recog­
nized role of phenolic pigments and other 
components on the potassium bitartrate hold­
ing capacity of wine. The general acceptance 
of significant seasonal variation in almost all 
aspects of composition, and the widespread 
practice of making single-cultivar wines from 
grapes grown under conditions with consider-328 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
ably different cultural practices, make these 
values of little use. 
b. The Cold or Freeze Tests 
The hold-cold or freeze test relies on the 
formation of significant crystals after holding 
the wine at a reduced temperature for a pe­
riod of time. The sample may actually be 
frozen over an 8 to 24 hour holding time (for 
the freeze version of the test) or held close to 
freezing temperature for several days or weeks 
(for the hold-cold test) and the presence of 
crystals after the ice has melted is taken to 
mean that the wine is unstable. The absence of 
crystals is taken to mean that the wine is sta­
ble. The less severe cold form of the test is 
conducted at above freezing temperature but 
usually allows several days for crystal forma­
tion. 
Variations of this approach are tests in which 
the concentration of potassium bitartrate is 
deliberately increased prior to the samples be­
ing held at cold temperatures. One example 
of such a dosed cold test is that in which 
between 200- and 600-mgjL additions are 
made (from a 10-to 13-gjL solution of potas­
sium bitartrate) and the wine held at tempera­
tures between -2°C and 5°C for five days 
(Schmitt et al. 1980). Another involves the 
dissolution of 250 to 1250 mgjL in the wine at 
35°C and then a stepwise cooling to 10°C and 
then -5°C. The interpretation of crystal ap­
pearance compared to the control is used to 
determine the saturation temperature of the 
sample, (Boiret et al. 1991). 
This approach does address the composi­
tional uniqueness of each wine rather than 
comparing it to generalized values, but as 
noted previously, the cold test values will not 
be true stability values if potassium bitartrate 
seeds are not added. They are not usually 
added since they obscure the visual interpreta­
tion of the test. 
A serious concern with the freeze test is that 
as ice formation occurs, all solutes, including 
the potassium, tartaric acid, and ethanol, are 
concentrated and the precipitation that then 
occurs is not related to wine concentration conditions. The use of freezing temperature, 
has a distorting effect on the coagulation of 
colloidal components, and these will generallv 
interfere with the natural nucleation and crys­
tal growth. 
These tests are actually crude crystallization 
rate tests rather than stability tests since there 
is no requirement for stability to have been 
achieved and the time of the test is predeter­
mined. They are not recommended. The main 
limitation with these tests is that they can 
provide false positive results. An unstable wine 
which is slow to develop crystals due to either 
low supersaturation or inhibition by other wine 
components, would be interpreted to be sta­
ble, simply because not enough time for crys­
tal growth was allowed by the test and no 
crystals are observed. 
c. The Davis Conductivity Test 
Due to the limitations of the concentration 
product approach for stability, a test was de­
veloped based on the rate approach outlined 
previously. The Davis Conductivity Test (Boul­
ton 1983; Vialatte 1984) aims to determine if a 
wine has any potential to precipitate at a cho­
sen temperature. It establishes an environ­
ment that encourages rapid crystal growth if 
any supersaturation exists at the test condi­
tions. It was developed during studies of the 
crystallization kinetics of potassium bitartrate 
(Dunsford and Boulton 1981) and is a more 
specific version of earlier tests of this kind 
(Muller and Wiirdig 1978). A stirred, seeded 
sample of wine is brought to the test tempera­
ture. The crystallization of potassium bitartrate 
is monitored by the change in wine conductiv­
ity due primarily to the loss of free potassium 
ions from solution as the crystallization occurs. 
If the wine is unstable at the test conditions, 
the conductivity will fall, while if it is stable, 
the conductivity will rise. The conductivity will 
remain constant only if the wine is exactly 
stable at the temperature of the test. The final 
value of the conductivity is the saturation con­
dition and can be used to monitor the progress 
of the full-scale treatment of only the wine that 
was tested. The change in wine conductivity due to the 
change in the potassium concentration is pH­
dependent. This is because hydrogen ions 
contribute to the conductivity and the crystal­
lization can cause a change in pH to occur. 
Hydrogen ions have approximately 10 times 
the molar conductance of potassium ions and, 
at typical wine levels, potassium at concentra­
tions ranging between 10 to 50 mM/L (390 to 
1950 mg/L). At higher pH values, for example 
pH = 4.0 ([H+] = 0.1 mM/L), the contribu­
tion of the protons to the conductivity reading 
is quite small, making the conductivity more 
sensitive to changes in potassium concentra­
tion. At pH = 3.0, ([H+] = 1 mM/L), the con­
tribution from protons is 10 times higher and 
similar to that due to the potassium ions. While 
the wine conductivity has contributions from 
species other than potassium and bitartrate 
ions, the change in conductance associated 
with this test will be directly proportional to 
the changes in the concentrations of only these 
ions. There is little value in trying to correlate 
or average these final conductivity values for 
other wines, owing to variations in mineral 
content, pH, and tartrate-binding compounds. 
An important feature of this test is that if 
the wine sample is filtered at the end of the 
test and analyzed for titratable acidity and pH, 
these will be the values that the wine will have 
after the stabilization treatment. If they are 
not acceptable, acidity adjustments can be 
made and evaluated at the testing stage, be­
fore the full-scale treatment is attempted. 
The test requires at least 15 giL of fresh 
powdered potassium bitartrate to be added to 
the sample at the desired temperature. This 
level is deliberately higher than in other tests 
in order that any fouling of the seeds by col­
loidal materials does not influence the final 
result. 
The test temperature will generally be the 
lowest temperature that the wine is expected 
to see during shipping, storage, or serving. 
This might be in the range 0 to 5°C for white 
wines that are expected to be held at domestic 
and commercial refrigerator conditions, or at The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 329 
higher temperatures (up to 10°C) for aged red 
wines held in cellars or on retail shelves. 
The test is applicable to other wine types 
(late-harvest, sparkling, and fortified wines) 
and it has been applied to the stability of base 
wines for sparkling wine production by fortify­
ing the base wine to the level of ethanol ex­
pected after the secondary fermentation and 
then conducting the test as described. 
/. Equipment for the Test. The test re­
quires a meter capable of reading conduc­
tances in the ranges of 100 J,LS to 1.0 mS and 
1.0 to 10 mS with an accuracy of 0.5% of the 
full-scale value or better. (The unit of conduc­
tance is the Siemen, S, and it is equal to the 
reciprocal of the resistance of the solution in 
Ohms. The use of the unit mho is not encour­
aged although some older meters will have 
scales in these units. The unit of conductivity 
most commonly used is S/cm, although the 
corresponding metric unit is S/m). Tempera­
ture compensation is a desirable feature but 
tank samples taken during the stabilization 
process should be brought to the test tempera­
ture before a reading is taken. The tempera­
ture compensation function is usually based 
on that of a potassium chloride solution and 
the ionic species in wine are sufficiently dif­
ferent so as to use the same temperature for 
all tests and comparative readings, rather than 
to rely on the compensation correction. The 
test is best conducted in a controlled tempera­
ture bath using water (or glycol solutions for 
temperatures below 3°C). Magnetic stir bars 
can be driven by a submerged air-driven (or 
water-driven) magnetic turbine. Several of 
these can be connected in series, to allow 
multiple samples to be tested at the same time. 
II. The Test Procedure. The temperature 
of the test is chosen from a consideration of 
the actual conditions that can be expected in 
the transportation, storage, and retailing of 
the wine. This might be ooe to 2°C for white 
wines that would be expected to be held in 
retail and domestic refrigerators, to 10 to 15°C 
for aged red wines that are expected to be 
held at ambient or wine cellar temperatures. 330 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
An alternative approach is to test wines from 
previous years in order to estimate the tem­
perature at which they are stable. 
A 100-mL sample of the wine is brought to 
temperature in a stirred 250-mL beaker. The 
conductance cell should be checked so that 
the electrodes are fully submerged and that no 
gas bubbles are adhering to them, interfering 
with the reading. A quantity of 1.5 g of pow­
dered potassium bitartrate is added and the 
initial conductivity is noted. The conductance 
after approximately 20 minutes (or when three 
successive one-minute readings are the same) 
is then noted for the interpretation. 
m. Interpretation of the Test. If the con­
ductivity remained constant during the test, 
no new crystals have formed and the seed 
crystals have not dissolved, indicating that the 
wine is stable at the test temperature. If the 
conductivity increased during the test, some of 
the seed crystals have dissolved, indicating that 
the wine is less than saturated at the test 
temperature. If the conductivity decreased 
during the test, some of the potassium bitar­
trate in the wine has crystallized and the wine 
is unstable at the test temperature. A true 
change should be at least twice the accuracy of 
the meter in the range being used. 
The final conductivity corresponds to that 
of the stable wine at the test temperature. This 
can be used to determine when stability is 
reached during the full-scale treatment of the 
wine. Samples drawn during the full-scale 
treatment need only be brought to the tem­
perature of the test and the conductivity value 
compared to that determined by the test. If 
the final solution is filtered and analyzed for 
titratable acidity and pH, these will be the 
values of the stabilized wine. Thus, unaccept­
ably large decreases in titratability can be fore­
seen and acidity adjustments can then be eval­
uated prior to full-scale stabilization. 
d. Other Seeded and Conductivity Tests 
Variations of the seeded conductivity test in­
clude a number of similar proposals in which 
other seeding levels are used, other test condi-tions maintained, and other interpretations are 
made. 
The quantities of potassium bitartrate seed 
crystals suggested by most authors have been 
in the range 0.5 to 10 giL (Haushofer and 
Szemeliker 1973), but most have suggested 
values such as 4 giL (Rhein 1977; Rhein and 
Neradt 1979) and 5 giL (Muller and Wurdig 
1978; Droux and Vialatte 1983). It is now well 
established that the final conductivities ob­
tained with these levels are dependent on the 
levels employed in this range. Our own stud­
ies, together with those of Postel and Prasch 
(1977) and Hagen (1979), have shown that in 
some wines at least 15 giL are needed to get a 
true equilibrium value that is independent of 
the seeding level. There is considerable evi­
dence of the interference of crystallization 
both in the test and the full-scale treatment 
due to colloidal components. This interfer­
ence is quite wine-specific and is often altered 
by such treatments as aging, blending, acidity 
adjustments, the use of charge-modified filter 
media, and membrane filtration. It is impor­
tant that these effects be overcome during the 
stability determination since their levels in 
finished wines will be different and unpre­
dictable. 
There are several alternative interpretations 
that make use of the apparent saturation tem­
perature and its relationship to actual wine 
stability. These range from assuming that the 
stability limit of a wine is at a temperature 
between 2°C and 6°C below its apparent satu­
ration temperature (Wurdig et al. 1983) to as 
much as 15°C below it (Maujean et al. 1985). 
Both of these criteria consider that wines can 
be held at several degrees below their appar­
ent saturation temperature without any risk of 
nucleation or crystallization. It is important to 
note that all of the wines considered by these 
authors were white table wines. A more recent 
study which included pigmented wines recom­
mends stability temperatures that range from 
5°C (white wine) to lOoe (red wine) below the 
apparent saturation temperature (Vallee et al. 
1990). These conclusions were based on the 
results of holding the wines at -2°C to -4°C for several days and comparing this with the 
formation of crystals at 10 to 12°e over a 
period of two years. 
In a different approach, introduced by 
Maujean et al. (1985) the saturation tempera­
ture is estimated by determining the tempera­
ture at which a two samples of a wine (one 
seeded and the other natural) provide the 
same conductivity as the temperature is raised 
in small increments. The seeded wine has crys­
tals added at the rate of 4 giL, while the other 
has 1 giL of potassium bitartrate dissolved 
into it at a warm temperature. The basis of this 
approach is the assumption that wines can 
support a supersaturation level of 1 giL be­
fore they will undergo spontaneous precipita­
tion. These authors used this criterion to es­
tablish the result that the stability temperature 
of wine was simply 15°e below the saturation 
temperature, as mentioned previously. 
Extending this approach, Gaillard et al. 
(1988), developed a temperature stepping sys­
tem to implement the method of Maujean et 
al. (1985), but favored a seeded test to estab­
lish the change in conductivity at ooe (similar 
to the Davis method, previously described) for 
pigmented wines. In a comparison of these 
methods using 20 white wines and 22 red 
wines, Gaillard et al. (1990), found that the 
saturation temperature was not strongly corre­
lated with the fall in conductivity of a seeded 
test at ooe for red wines but showed a better 
correlation between these values with the white 
wines. 
Domeizel et al. (1992) developed a criterion 
based on two determinations of the saturation 
temperature, one with increasing temperature 
and the other by decreasing temperature. The 
difference between these was considered to be 
a measure of supersaturation in the wine. 
These values varied greatly within each wine 
type and suffer from the same limitations as 
other saturation tests. 
There is little value in attempting to corre­
late the results of the conductivity test for 
different wines. This is because there are other 
ionic species that contribute to the conductiv­
ity but not to the stability, as well as un-ionized The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 331 
components that influence the stability but 
not the conductivity. The saturation tempera­
ture is not considered to be a reliable indica­
tor of the ability of a wine to precipitate crys­
tals at lower temperatures. While some solutes 
have a critical level of supersaturation that 
must be exceeded before spontaneous crystal­
lization will occur, there is no evidence that 
this is 1 giL for potassium bitartrate in either 
aqueous or wine-like solutions, let alone in a 
natural product such as wine where sponta­
neous nucleation would be expected to be 
influenced by the presence of phenolics and 
colloidal components. These methods do not 
permit the determination of the final acidity 
and pH that will result from the treatment as 
part of the test. 
The effect of temperature on the solubility 
and stability of polysaccharide, proteinaceous, 
and phenolic colloids requires that the test be 
performed in the wine of interest and at the 
temperature of interest if a reliable result is to 
be obtained. 
4. Crystallization Processes 
The principal problems with natural crystal­
lizations are that low levels of supersaturation 
lead to poor if any spontaneous nucleation 
resulting in limited and slow crystal growth. If 
there is poor nucleation, the crystal area avail­
able for growth will also be small and the 
overall rate reduced accordingly. Some wines 
have levels of natural colloids such as polysac­
charides, peptide-tannin complexes, and pro­
teins, which can deposit on new nuclei or 
growing crystals, leading to a cessation of crys­
tal growth, and hence precipitation, even 
though some level of supersaturation exists in 
the wine. 
A number of alternative treatments have 
been proposed in attempts to increase the 
crystal surface area and to cause more exten­
sive fluid-solid interaction. Most involve sig­
nificant agitation and crystal seeding, some 
rely on ice formation (and enhanced natural 
nucleation), while most attempt to minimize 332 The Physical and Chemical Stamlity of Wine 
the energy required by interchanging energy 
between the incoming and the exiting streams. 
a. Treatment Effects 
Oxidation, aging, fining, and thermal treat­
ments will affect the potassium bitartrate hold­
ing capacity of wine, especially red wines. The 
fining with bentonite has been shown to alter 
the holding capacity of wines (Pilone and Berg 
1965; Berg et al. 1968). The changes in the 
concentration products of dry white and dry 
red wines was found to be in the range 15 to 
20% and 25 to 30% respectively, almost inde­
pendent of the fining level. These changes are 
due to either the removal of potassium bitar­
trate components by bentonite, the removal of 
materials that are inhibiting the growth of 
crystals (and, thereby, the extent of precipita­
tion), or by partial esterification of tartaric 
acid (Edwards et al. 1985). 
b. Jacketed Tanks 
Currently the most common cellar treatment 
is to cool the wine down to temperatures in 
the range of -4°C to O°C and to hold it under 
these conditions for several days or weeks (see 
also Chapter 14 for a more complete discus­
sion of the heat exchangers suitable for these 
operations). This is generally done on a tank-by-tank basis and rarely is any agitation or 
seeding introduced. 
Many wineries use jacketed tanks for this 
purpose and there are particular problems 
associated with the development of ice on the 
inside wall of the tank in the vicinity of the 
jacket. This will occur whenever the cooling 
medium produces a wall temperature that is 
below the freezing point of the wine. This 
usually occurs at -2°C for table wines at 12% 
v Iv ethanol, and the freezing point at other 
ethanol and sugar contents is given in Figure 
8-3. Once the ice layer is formed, the cooling 
rate is decreased due to the additional heat 
transfer resistance imposed by the ice. 
The batch treatment is particularly ineffi­
cient in terms of both the energy consumed 
per volume treated and the time required to 
reach the desired temperature. The use of 
jackets and the tank-by-tank approach effec­
tively prevent the recovery of the energy by 
interchange between other warmer wines and 
the treated wine. By filtering the cold wine 
from the crystals and allowing it to reach the 
storage temperature by ambient heat gains, 
the energy extracted during the initial cooling 
is lost to the surroundings. 
The time taken to cool the wine is also the 
longest possible due to the heat transfer ar-
o~=z----------------------------------------~ 
Fig. 8-3. Estimated freezing points of 
wines and juices. -2 
-4 
-6 
-8 
-10 
-12 ~~~~~~~~~--~~--~~--~~--~~~ 
o 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 
Sugar or Ethanol Concentration (%w/w) 
o Wine • Juice rangement of batch cooling (see the heat 
transfer examples in Chapter 14). The rate of 
cooling in this situation depends on the dif­
ference in temperature between the wine at 
the inner surface of the tank and the coolant 
temperature. As the wine is cooled this dif­
ferential is decreased, resulting in a propor­
tional reduction of the heat transfer rate. The 
wine temperature will then approach that of 
the coolant exponentially, taking progressively 
longer for each cooling increment as the wine 
temperature falls. The reduction in the cool­
ing rate is further exaggerated if the wine 
adjacent to the tank wall is not disturbed. The 
absence of tank mixing and the reliance on 
natural convection currents can result in ther­
mal stratification and radial temperature gra­
dients in which the wall conditions do not 
represent those of the tank contents. The op­
tion of using a colder coolant temperature to 
increase the temperature driving force is off­
set by the increased likelihood of forming ice 
at the inside wall of the tank. 
The time required for the cooling of wine 
can be greatly improved by the use of two 
external heat exchangers in a two-stage cool­
ing sequence. The first stage performs the 
cooling down to within approximately 5°C of 
the treatment temperature. This is conve­
niently done on a semicontinuous basis as the 
wine is transferred from one tank to another. 
Such a system also permits energy conserva­
tion by interchanging cold wines that have 
been stabilized with warmer ones that are 
about to be stabilized, most conveniently by 
means of a plate heat exchanger (for a more 
complete description of these units, refer to 
Chapter 14). The second stage involves the 
cooling of the wine down to the stabilization 
temperature (often -5°C or -6°C). In order 
to prevent ice formation in the exchanger at 
these temperatures, a scraped-surface heat ex­
changer (refer to Chapter 14) is used. This will 
permit a fraction of the wine to be frozen 
during the cooling process depending on the 
operating conditions that are chosen (Riese 
and Boulton 1980). The formation of ice in 
this way, commonly 5 to 10% of the wine on a The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 333 
volume basis, helps to concentrate the wine 
temporarily, thereby providing a higher super­
saturation level for spontaneous nucleation 
and crystal growth. The ice is allowed to melt 
during the following days so that further cool­
ing is reduced and the general composition of 
the wine is not altered. The formation of ice 
can also be used to reduce the volume of wine 
treated in the second stage. By overcooling 
(and partially freezing) the fraction that passes 
through the scraped-surface exchanger, it can 
be combined with an untreated cold fraction, 
to provide the desired stabilization tempera­
ture. One report of such an application re­
ported a reduction of treatment time from 
three to four weeks to five to six days 
(Scraped-surface 1976). 
c. Proprietary Stabilization Processes 
During the past 20 years there have been 
several proprietary process developments for 
the faster and more complete stabilization of 
wine with respect to potassium bitartrate. 
These include the proprietary systems devel­
oped by the Vinipal, Sietz, Gasquet, Alfa-Laval, 
Westphalia, and Imeca companies. 
These processes generally employ an agi­
tated crystallization tank, either a diatoma­
ceous earth filter or a disc centrifuge for final 
crystal removal, and they transfer energy be­
tween the incoming wine and the treated wine 
for energy conservation, commonly in a plate 
heat exchanger. The differences between them 
arise from the temperatures employed, 
whether or not seed crystals are added, the 
design of the crystallization vessels, and the 
use of proprietary heat exchangers and sepa­
ration equipment. A comparative review of 
several of these systems with a limited number 
of wines has been published (Ferenczi et al. 
1982). These systems usually have the capabil­
ity of stabilizing wines within 20 to 30 minutes, 
but their cost has generally limited their adop­
tion to less than 200 installations worldwide. 
One of the most widely used systems, the 
Vinipal process, was one of the first developed, 
in the mid 1970s. It incorporates its own re­
frigeration system, chilling wines to below their 334 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
freezing point in a two-stage sequence. The 
wine slurry then flows up from the base of a 
conical-cylindrical reaction vessel that allows 
larger crystals to settle out and collect in a bed 
at the base of the cone. The wine is then 
filtered in a diatomaceous earth filter and 
interchanged with the incoming wine in a 
plate heat exchanger. It is a semicontinuous 
process being interrupted only by the cleaning 
of the filter. Evaluations of this system with a 
limited number of wines are reported by 
Vialatte (1979) and Serrano and Ribereau­
Gayon (1981). 
The Gasquet and Imeca systems are very 
similar to the Vinipal process except that alter­
native second-stage exchangers were used and 
slightly different reactor dimensions were em­
ployed (Ferenczi et al. 1982). The Sietz pro­
cess, commonly referred to as the Spica or 
contact process, was developed in 1977 and 
differs in that it used seed addition, recovery, 
and regrinding and avoided ice formation by 
operating at close to O°C. It is a multiple-batch, 
semicontinuous process. It uses a seeding level 
of 4 giL and several agitated cylindrical tanks 
in a rotation sequence that allows a holding 
time of up to two hours. The incoming wine 
was pad filtered to remove suspended fouling 
components and heat was recovered in a plate 
heat exchanger. Rhein (1977), Muller-Spath 
(1979), Rhein and Neradt (1979), and Blouin 
et al. (1979) provide further details of this 
process and its performance. 
The Crystalflow system was the first truly 
continuous process that introduced a disc cen­
trifuge in place of the diatomaceous filter used 
by other systems. Developed by Alfa-Laval, it 
refined the second-stage cooling with a Con­
therm exchanger and employed a large, agi­
tated, reaction vessel. Ferenczi et al. (1982) 
and Blouin and Desenne (1983) provide re­
ports of its performance with some table wines. 
A process which embedded seed crystals in 
the cake of diatomaceous earth filtration was 
proposed and evaluated by Scott et al. (1981). 
The application of a disc centrifuge in com­
bination with a battery of hydrocyclones for 
the recovery of crystals was introduced into the contact process described above by Bott 
and Schottler (1985). The hydrocyclones were 
used to remove the majority of the crystal 
load. The partially clarified wine and the fine 
particles were then directed to a centrifuge for 
separation. These particles were considerably 
contaminated with colloidal components and 
are discarded. The underflow stream from the 
hydrocyclone, containing the larger, relatively 
clean, bitartrate crystals was recycled after 
grinding. 
A further modification of the Vinipal pro­
cess in which a modified agitated reactor and 
settling tank is introduced together with a 
conductivity probe in the outlet stream, is de­
scribed by Esteve (1988). This system has an 
option for the introduction of seed crystals, 
but the use of a diatomaceous filter for their 
removal is its practical limitation. It can per­
form on-line measurements of the outlet con­
ductivity with a dedicated computer and is 
referred to as the Crystalloprocess. 
The alternative approach to seeding and 
crystal recovery is the application of crystal-bed 
techniques such as a packed or fluidized bed 
in a vertical column. The shortcoming of the 
packed bed and moving bed approaches 
(Walter 1970) is that rapid crystal growth at 
the base of the bed can lead to blockage of the 
flow channels. This can be overcome by the 
use of a fluidized bed, in which the particles 
are held in a dense suspension and not in 
direct contact with each other. Bench-scale 
trials in our laboratories have shown the suit­
ability of the fluidized bed crystallizer for the 
stabilization of wines together with energy in­
terchange between the inlet and outlet streams 
common to earlier processes. The use of larger 
particles and vertical flow in such a column 
enables almost all of the crystals to remain in 
the column, practically eliminating the need 
for crystal recovery by diatomaceous earth fil­
tration or centrifuging. The two or more 
columns could be operated in parallel to en­
able crystal recovery from the bed when 
needed. The crystals from the column would 
be an ideal form for the recovery of tartrates, 
free of diatomaceous earth and other solids. All of these processes appear to be capable 
of conferring potassium bitartrate stability to 
table wines. The choice depends on the bal­
ance between crystallization efficiency, treat­
ment capacity, energy minimization and instal­
lation ,and operating costs. 
5. Stability Criteria for Calcium Tartrate 
Calcium tartrate can also precipitate from table 
wines provided its level exceeds the holding 
capacity of the wine. Like potassium bitartrate, 
its holding capacity is greater than that ex­
pected from model solutions due to complex­
ing by wine constituents, and there are col­
loidal effects on the onset of crystal formation 
(Berg and Keefer 1959; Postel 1983; Curvelo­
Garcia 1987). While less common than potas­
sium bitartrate precipitation, it is more of a 
concern because it is not readily removed by 
the low-temperature crystallization of potas­
sium bitartrate. It is particularly troublesome 
in fortified wines, where calcium salts have 
been used to treat wil)es (Clark et al. 1988) or 
where significant calcium pickup has occurred 
from concrete tanks. At a tartaric acid content 
of 6 giL, the recommended calcium content 
(based on previously recommended CP values) 
in a white wine would be approximately 5 
mglL at pH 4, and 50 mglL at pH 3. Many 
wines are close to instability naturally with 
concentrations of 80 to 100 mglL of calcium 
(Table 8-4). 
a. Calcium Tartrate Concentration 
Products 
The concentration product (CP) concept (re­
fer to Section 2.a of this chapter) has also been 
applied to this instability (Berg and Keefer 
1959). Typical values indicating the role of 
wine components on this type of solubility are 
indicated in Table 8-6. The highest and rec­
ommended values based on the San Joaquin 
Valley wines (DeSoto and Yamada 1963) are 
presented in Table 8-7. 
While the CP values have the same limita­
tions previously discussed for potassium bitar­
trate salt, the calcium tartrate values have The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 335 
greater variance, presumably due to complex­
ing of the calcium ions. However they have 
been used widely for this stability testing in the 
absence of alternative tests. 
b. Crystallization Rate Phenomena 
Although the solubility of calcium tartrate de­
creases with decreasing temperature, the uti­
lization of low temperatures to promote en­
hanced crystallization has been found to be of 
little benefit. The reason appears to be an 
inherent difficulty in the spontaneous nucle­
ation of this salt in wines (Abgueguen and 
Boulton 1993) even when the supersaturation 
is increased by lowering the temperature. As a 
result, crystallization is not enhanced simply 
by holding the wine at low temperatures for 
several days or weeks. Those wines which are 
unstable with respect to this salt are more 
likely to develop crystals in the presence of 
potassium bitartrate crystals during cold stor­
age within the winery. 
Attempts to speed up the crystallization rate 
at low temperatures by the addition of seed 
crystals of racemic calcium tartrate are of lim­
ited success in that while calcium contents can 
be reduced, at 1°C, it takes approximately 
eight hours with 4 giL of seeds (Sudraud and 
Caye 1983). The use of this salt is not presently 
approved for winemaking. 
Unlike the precipitation of the potassium 
bitartrate, there are few studies of the crystal­
lization kinetics for calcium tartrate from wine. 
Recent work (Abgueguen and Boulton 1993) 
has shown that when seed crystals of Ca 
L( + )tartrate are added, the precipitation from 
either model solutions or wines is both rapid 
and second order with respect to concentra­
tion over the entire de saturation reaction. The 
corresponding rate law is then: 
where k s is the second-order rate constant; A 
is the crystal surface area; and Cw and C, are 
the concentrations of calcium tartrate in the 
wine and at saturation. 336 The Physical and Chemical Stamlity of Wine 
7r-----------------------~ 
• 4 giL Seeds 
• 20 giL Seeds 
30 giL Seeds 
O'------'----''-----'-----L-----.J 
FIg. 84. The effect of seeding level 
on the crystallization of calcium tar­
trate. o 16 
The effect of seed loading has a dramatic 
effect on the rate of crystallization as shown in 
Figure 8-4, and the effect of temperature has 
both a rate and equilibrium effect as shown in 
Figure 8-5. The crystallization curves of several 
different wines (Pinot noir, Pinot blanc and 
Cabernet Sauvignon) are shown in Figure 8-6. 
The second-order rate constant can be ex­
pressed in an Arrhenius form and the activa­
tion energies of several single-cultivar wines 
are presented in Table 8-8. 
Fig. 8-5. The effect of temperature on the 
crystallization of calcium tartrate. ~ 
~ 
8 :;::; 
III .p 
fii 
~ 
5 'u d 3.00 
2.40 
1.80 
1.20 
0.60 
0.00 
0 32 48 64 80 
Time (Mirutes) 
6. Stability Testing for Calcium Tartrate 
A seeded calcium tartrate stability test analo­
gous to that previously developed for the 
potassium bitartrate salt has been developed 
(Abgueguen and Boulton 1993). The changes 
in conductivity due to the calcium tartrate are 
considered to be too small for the use of the 
conductivity approach and the more specific 
approach is to determine the calcium concen­
tration before and after the test. The major 
• 20 C 
• 12 C 
.. 4 C 
16 32 48 64 80 
Time (Minutes) 4.00 
:J ..... 3.20 i 
c 0 :;:; 2.40 III ... .., c 
Q) g 
8 1.60 
5 
U 
"iii 0.80 
0 
0.00 
0 16 32 48 64 80 
Time (Minutes) 
limitation is the procurement of pure calcium 
tartrate seed crystals since most commercial 
samples contain approximately 5% of a basic 
impurity and this causes significant pH changes 
when added. The results described were ob­
tained using freshly prepared calcium tartrate 
seed crystals. 
The test conditions are a seeding level of 
4 giL of the crystals at the desired tempera­
ture and the membrane filtration of the sam­
ple after approximately 100 minutes. The ini­
tial and final samples are then analyzed for 
calcium content by atomic absorption or a 
comparable method. The changes in calcium 
content are often too small to be detected by 
conductivity under these conditions. A similar 
interpretation is applied to determine whether 
the wine has precipitated calcium, shown no 
change, or dissolved calcium under the test 
conditions. • 
~ 
• The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 337 
Pinot noir 
Pinot blanc 
Cabernet 
Sauvignon 
Fig. 8-6. The crystallization of cal­
cium tartrate from different wines. 
Corresponding saturation temperature tests 
have been proposed for calcium tartrate solu­
bility (Gortges and Stocke 1987, Muller et al. 
1990), using the changes in conductivity to 
determine the ability of a wine to dissolve 
calcium tartrate at temperatures between 10°C 
and 30°C. These tests have the same limita­
tions as those described previously (Section 
3.e) for the potassium bitartrate solubility, with 
further limitations due the difficulty of sponta­
neous nucleation and are not recommended. 
a. Action of Calcium Cation Additions 
Calcium sulfate additions have been used to 
lower the pH of wine without increasing the 
titratable acidity and are probably limited to 
wine production in the Sherry region of Spain. 
The increase in calcium concentration causes 
precipitation of calcium tartrate and allows 
further ionization of the existing tartaric acid 
Table 8-8. The influence of temperature on the rate of calcium tartrate from wines. 
Activation Temperature (a C) energy 
Cultivar 4 12 20 (kJ/Mole) 
Chardonnay 158.5 78.4 62.1 34.5 ± 7.40 
Pinot blanc 123.4 66.5 52.8 ± 11.6 
Pinot noir 85.4 68.4 57.4 16.6 ± 2.90 
Cabernet Sauvignon 151.3 112.7 74.2 30.0 ± 2.00 338 The Physical and Chemical Stability oj Wine 
(and the bitartrate ions). The result is a release 
of protons and a fall in pH with no change in 
titratable acidity. The extent of the change is 
dependent on the amount of calcium tartrate 
precipitated and the buffer capacity at the 
wine (i.e., the presence and strength of other 
acids). There is no change in the titratable 
acidity because the calcium tartrate contains 
no ionizable hydrogens, unlike potassium 
bitartrate. Since supersaturation levels must be 
reached in order for the precipitation to oc­
cur, a subsequent calcium tartrate instability 
would be expected unless the wine is further 
treated to remove any excess calcium tartrate. 
Ideally the crystals from the precipitation 
might be used as nuclei for the calcium tar­
trate stabilization if cooling and stirring are 
employed before removal of the calcium tar­
trate. This may be acceptable for wine treat­
ments, but is less so for juices due the change 
in solubility with ethanol content. The treat­
ment is not approved in the United States. 
7. Calcium Mucate 
An unusual instability that can occur in wines 
from botrytis-infected grapes is due to the 
precipitation of mucic acid. The acid is 
thought to be formed by an enzymatic oxida­
tion of galacturonic acid, which forms the 
backbone of grape pectin. Much of the pectin content is degraded by botrytis and levels of 
mucic acid can be as high as 1 to 2 gil 
(Wiirdig 1976). The solubility of the calcium 
mucate is very low and the precipitate is char­
acterized by small white clumps rather than 
more usual crystalline shape of other salts. 
The quantity of the acid in the mucate form 
approximately doubles between pH 3.0 and 
3.25 and again between 3.25 and 3.5. This 
means that the quantity of calcium at satura­
tion must decrease by one-half and one-quarter 
over the same range. In a wine containing 
10% v /v ethanol, the calcium content at satu­
ration with 100 mg/L mucic acid is approxi­
mately 400 mg/L at pH 3.0, 160 mg/L at pH 
3.25, or 80 mg/L at pH 3.5 (Wiirdig 1976). 
With average calcium contents of approxi­
mately 90 mg/L in table wines (Table 8-4), the 
saturation levels for the salt would be reached 
with approximately 450 mg/L at pH 3.0, 185 
mg/L at pH 3.25, and 90 mg/L at pH 3.50. 
8. Metal Stabilities 
Transition metals, in particular copper and 
iron, are involved in a number of solubility 
and complex ion equilibria as well as altering 
the solubility and stability of certain protein 
fractions in wines. The concentration of a 
number of the transition metals in wines is 
shown in Table 8-9 (Ough et al. 1982). Levels 
Table 8-9. Levels of some transition metals in California wines. 
Copper Iron Zinc Lead 
Statistic (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) 
White table wine (138 samples) 
Average 0.l3 3.0 0.66 0.04 
Standard Deviation 0.11 1.8 0.38 0.07 
Rose wine (9 samples) 
Average 0.16 3.7 0.62 0.03 
Standard Deviation 0.11 1.7 0.23 0.01 
Red table wine (124 samples) 
Average 0.l7 3.8 0.93 0.04 
Stardard Deviation 0.l8 1.6 0.74 0.03 
Sparkling wine (16 samples) 
Average 0.07 3.3 0.95 0.03 
Stardard Deviation 0.05 1.0 0.72 0.01 
SOUTce of Data: Ough et al. (1982). of copper or iron as low as 1.0 mg/L have 
been shown to be involved in protein-metal 
hazes (Kean and Marsh 1957). In these cases, 
the protein content of the haze is several times 
the weight of the accompanying copper. 
Sources of contamination can be copper or 
brass fittings in storage vessels or the residues 
of applications of copper sulfate in the vine­
yard (Lay and Lemperle 1981; Lay and Leib 
1988) or any additions made in the winery to 
remove hydrogen sulfide. Methods for the re­
moval of copper and iron in particular are 
discussed in more detail in Chapter 7. 
B. PROTEIN STABILITY 
The slow development of protein hazes in 
white table wines is perhaps the next most 
common physical instability after the precipi­
tation of potassium bitartrate. The levels of 
total protein show only a poor correlation with 
the incidence of protein hazes (Bayly and Berg 
1967), and this is not surprising given the 
influence of pH on the solubility proteins. Of 
more importance are the isoelectric properties 
of the various protein fractions, their solubili­
ties under wine conditions, and their concen­
trations in wine. 
While earlier approaches were concerned 
with the total protein content and heat denat­
uration, the more common protein instabili­
ties today are those that occur sometime after 
bottling and shelf storage and these appear to 
be primarily due to the solubility of particular 
fractions rather than thermal denaturation. 
1. Factors Influencing Solubility 
Proteins become cations at low pH and anions 
at high pH due to the ionization of their 
carboxylic acid and amine components. The 
pH value at which they carry no overall charge 
is referred to as the isoelectric point (pI), and 
this is essentially the same as the isoionic point 
for most proteins. 
The importance of the isoelectric point is 
that it is also the pH value at which the solubil-The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 339 
ity of the protein is at a minimum. For many 
proteins a change of 0.2 pH units in either 
direction can lead to a significant increase in 
solubility, with greater increases in low-strength 
salt solutions. The role of salt strength up to 
20 mM/L is to enhance the solubility of sev­
eral proteins in aqueous conditions. Since 
many wines will have salt strengths in the 
range 40 to 60 mM/L, wine proteins are ex­
pected to be made more soluble due to this 
effect. The reverse is true of the influence of 
ethanol, but the extent to which it reduces the 
salt effect at wine conditions has yet to be 
determined. 
Like other colloidal components, there is 
relatively little known about the factors influ­
encing the rate of nucleation and aggregation 
of the insoluble form. By analogy with the 
solubility of organic salts, the proteins appear 
to be able to remain in a supersaturated state 
for considerable periods of time before pre­
cipitation occurs. This poses some difficulties 
in the development of suitable stability tests, 
especially those that address the level of super­
saturation rather the protein concentration 
alone. 
2. Wine Proteins 
Wine proteins have isoelectric points between 
2.5 and 8.7 (Yokotsuka et al. 1977; Anelli 1977) 
and molecular weights in the range of 20,000 
to 40,000 Dalton. They appear to be subunits 
of cellular proteins from grapes, disrupted by 
the pH change when berries are crushed. 
Studies of the changes in total protein content 
during maturation of the grapes (Tyson et al. 
1980, 1981; Murphey et al. 1989) have shown 
levels between 100 and 800 mg/L depending 
both on the cultivars and the protein methods 
employed. Polypeptides (generally defined to 
be MW < 10,000) released by yeast leakage 
and autolysis have been shown to be thermally 
stable in wine (Bayly and Berg 1967) but may 
be involved in peptide-tannin hazes (to be 
discussed in Section C.3 of this chapter). 
The fractions of wine proteins separated by 
anion exchange chromatography {Bayly and 340 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
Berg 1967) have been shown to have quite 
different properties in terms of the incidence 
of heat stability. This study provided strong 
evidence about the fractional nature of pro­
tein properties and behavior. They found that 
the late eluting peak, the fraction with the 
lowest pI value, to be the most unstable under 
the heat test conditions. Similar but more re­
cent results, showing variable response of frac-
2!5 
211 
i 1!5 
til 
!5 tions to the heat test, have been obtained by 
the differential precipitation with ammonium 
sulphate (Waters et al. 1991) and by HPLC 
anion exchange fractions (Fukuda 1992). 
The multiplicity of protein fractions in two 
common cultivars are shown in the HPLC 
separations in Figures 8-7a and 8-7b (Trous­
dale and Boulton 1987). This separation 
method has been used to study the response 
til 211 
TIllie (1IIIn.) 311 
(a) 
311 
211 
til 
II~--------~------------~----------~---------- til 211 
TIllie (1IIIn.) 
(b) 311 
Fig. 8-7. Separation of the protein fractions in (a) Chardonnay; and (b) Sauvignon blanc. of the different fractions to various stability 
tests, bentonite fining, and protease treatment 
(Fukuda 1992). A number of other studies 
have recently applied alternative separation 
methods to study juice and wine proteins (In­
teresse et al. 1987; Correa et al. 1988; Paezold 
et al. 1990). 
Early studies of the effect of pH and pro­
tein content effects found that wines with 90 
to 125 mgjL were stable at pH values of 2.93 
to 3.15, but unstable at pH values above this 
(Moretti and Berg 1965). There was little ef­
fect of pH on the heat stability of three wines 
that had protein contents above 200 mgjL. 
No general correlations between total protein 
content and instability by the heat test could 
be found. There was a trend in protein insta­
bility with increasing wine pH above 3.2. 
Protein fractions are selectively removed by 
bentonite fining, with those carrying the largest 
positive charge being removed first. Unfortu­
nately, there are combinations of cultivar and 
pH which can lead to protein fractions being 
close to neutrality, which are then most likely 
to be unstable and yet poorly removed by 
bentonite. Because of the influence of pH on 
both protein solubility and its charge, wines 
fined with bentonite at one pH and either 
adjusted in acidity (with a change in pH) or 
placed in a blend at a new pH are again 
susceptible to instability, even with the dilution 
effects. In most cases, bentonite fining should 
be performed at the lowest possible pH, in 
order to be most effective with as many pro­
tein fractions as possible in a cationic form. 
3. Tests for Protein Stability 
Stability tests can be classified into four main 
groups: (1) Total protein assays (such as the 
Biuret, Coomassie blue, Pierce protein 
reagent); (2) chemical denaturation treat­
ments (such as the trichloroacetic acid, TCA, 
or phosphomolybdic acid, PMA, tests); (3) heat 
denaturation tests (for conditions ranging from 
90°C for one hour to 50°C for 24 hours); and 
(4) solubility tests (such as ethanol participa­
tion). The total protein content is of limited The Physical and Chemical Stamlity of Wine 341 
use in quantitying the tendency for precipita­
tion, and the Coomassie blue and the Pierce 
protein reagents have interferences due to 
phenols and copper, tannin (Godshal 1983), 
and glutathione (Fukuda 1992) respectively, 
when used directly in wines. The Coomassie 
blue procedure also displays different re­
sponses to different proteins (Bradford 1976; 
Spector 1977; Read and Northcote 1981; Tal 
et al. 1980), and this is of concern in its use in 
wines. 
The trichloroacetic acid (TCA) test (Berg 
and Akiyoshi 1961) involves boiling the sample 
for two to five minutes in the presence of the 
acid, cooling, and measuring haze formation. 
The Bentotest approach (Jakob 1968), which 
used phosphomolybdic acid, is similar but was 
performed at room temperature. Both of these 
are gross chemical denaturations of protein 
structure under very acidic conditions. They 
are effectively crude protein assays and again 
show little relationship to the solubility or sta­
bility of unstable fractions. They are not rec­
ommended. 
a. Heat Tests 
The heat tests provide the conditions for the 
thermal denaturation of proteins (at tempera­
tures that wines should not be exposed to) and 
their use is of limited application to the pre­
cipitation of protein fractions due to solubility. 
The thermal denaturation properties of a pro­
tein fraction are not related to its pI and the 
fractions addressed in these tests may be very 
soluble in the wine at normal conditions. 
The conditions for these tests range from 
one hour at 90°C to two days at 50°C, followed 
by chilling to enhance the precipitation. The 
poor correlation between different versions of 
the test indicates that the accelerated results of 
this kind are unreliable. Both Jakob (1969) 
and Pocock and Rankine (1973) found that 
there were different responses to the tempera­
ture used in the test when different wines 
where tested. 
A concern with the longer tests, those using 
24 and 48 hours, is the accelerated oxidation 
and condensation of phenolics (even in the 342 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
absence of air) under these conditions. This 
may lead to combined precipitates between 
pep tides and phenolic dimers (as described in 
Section C.3 of this chapter) which are artifacts 
of the test. 
There is some rationale for the use of the 
heat-test on the basis that it tests for the heat­
unstable components. These might form pre­
cipitates after the wine has been exposed to 
elevated temperatures during poorly con­
trolled shipping or storage conditions. How­
ever, the application of treatments to pass 
these tests implies that the wine must be capa­
ble of sustaining such a thermal treatment 
without any precipitation and still be suitable 
for sale. This can result in a gross overtreat­
ment of the wine and the problem of poor 
temperature control during transport and 
storage should be handled more directly. 
Another concern with the application of 
the heat tests is that the precipitates are gener­
ally considered to be proteinaceous and that 
only bentonite should be used as the agent of 
treatment. In many wines this results in exces­
sive bentonite applications when other com­
ponents such as polysaccharides and phenolics 
may be contributing to haze formation in the 
test. 
The recent isolation of a haze-protecting 
factor from white wine (Waters et al. 1993) 
which reduces the haze formation during heat 
tests adds to the complications in the interpre­
tation of such tests. This factor was shown to 
be mainly polysaccharide (96%) with a small 
protein component (4%). The polysaccharide 
was found to comprise mostly mannose (78%) 
and glucose (13%). This finding might lead to 
the development of natural additives that can 
function in a similar way, perhaps preventing 
much of the haze formation observed in wines. 
b. The Ethanol Test for Colloidal Stability 
A more direct approach to the quantification 
of colloidal solubility is to deliberately force 
the least soluble components out of solution 
under defined conditions and to quantity the 
amount of haze produced. This has led to the 
application of ethanol as the forcing agent in a general colloidal stability tests for wines. This 
test aims to cause the precipitation of the least 
soluble colloidal fractions, at wine pH, with 
the agent most responsible for limiting their 
solubility. It involves the addition of 10 mL of 
absolute ethanol to a 10-mL degassed wine 
sample and the two are thoroughly mixed. 
The resulting haze can be measured in a mat­
ter of minutes at either room temperature or 
at lower temperatures. The lower tempera­
tures provide somewhat higher readings but 
are complicated by the condensation of water 
vapor on the tube wall. The resulting ethanol 
content is approximately 56% v lv, which is 
considerably lower than that used by some 
groups for the detection of pectins or polysac­
charides. Our use of this test uses the response 
of the haze to treatments, rather than the 
ethanol content of the mixture, to identity the 
components involved. 
Protein fractions are usually one of the ma­
jor components of the haze that results from 
the ethanol test. The extent to which proteins 
are involved can be determined by the re­
sponse of the haze to treatments such as ben­
tonite trials and the shifting of pH. The con­
centration of other colloids such as polysac­
charides will not be altered significantly by 
these treatments. 
The results obtained by the successive ap­
plication of ethanol additions to a heat-unsta­
ble Sauvignon blanc wine are shown in Figure 
8-8. The influence of pH on the solubility of 
its haze is clearly demonstrated. This wine 
would be more stable at either the higher or 
lower pH values, preferably the lower one in 
terms of bentonite effectiveness. The removal 
of unstable protein by bentonite is demon­
strated on the same wine in Figure 8-9. The 
results of a one-hour, 90°C heat test of this 
wine indicated that bentonite levels in excess 
of 1.0 giL would be required while the ethanol 
test would indicate somewhere between 240 
and 600 mg/L would suffice. Such results are 
not generally found in all white wines. Table 
8-10 provides a comparison of the similar tests 
for 10 white wines. A correlation is shown 
between the total protein content and the The Physical and Chemical StaiJility of Wine 343 
BO 
70 ~ pH=3.26 
60 • pH=3.56 
5 50 
~ • pH=3.B6 
Q) 40 
N :f 30 
20 
10 
0 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 
Ethanol Added (mL) 
haze produced by the TCA method, but no 
relationship can be found between the heat 
test haze and the ethanol precipitation values, 
as might be expected. 
4. Methods of Protein Stabilization 
The most widely used agent for the treatment 
of wine for protein instability is bentonite. The 
mechanism of its action and the development 
of alternative treatments is considered in de­
tail in Chapter 7. 
The application of ultrafiltration to the re­
moval of proteins from wines is complicated 
BO 
70 • 
60 • 
5 50 
f-6 
Q) 40 
N 
.:f 30 
20 
10 
0 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 
Ethanol Added (mU Fig. 8-8. Ethanol titration curves for a 
Sauvignon blanc wine at 3 pH conditions. 
by the presence of the polysaccharide content. 
The evidence of phenolic retention by the use 
of certain 10,000 and 20,000 Dalton cutoff 
filters (Peri et al. 1988) is an additional factor 
making it less suitable for wine treatment. 
The application of high-temperature short­
time (HTST) treatments for the denaturation 
of proteins has found mixed success but lim­
ited acceptance, in part due to the poor pre­
cipitation of colloidal matter following the 
treatment. Recent advances in the characteri­
~ation of the polysaccharide fractions may lead 
to a better understanding of such conditions 
Control 
240 mglL 
Bentonite 
600 mglL 
Bentonite 
Fig. 8-9. Ethanol titration curves for a 
Sauvignon blanc wine at two bentonite 
levels. 344 The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 
Table 8-10. A comparison of alternative stability tests. 
Wine pH 
Chardonnay 3.00 
Chardonnay 3.12 
Riesling 3.1I 
Chardonnay 3.50 
Sauvignon blanc 2.85 
Muscat Cane IIi 3.44 
Riesling 3.42 
Chardonnay 3.41 
Sauvignon blanc 3.18 
Sauvignon blanc 3.56 
lCoomassie Blue assay. 
2Trichloroacetic acid assay. 
'NTU ~ Nephelos turbidity unit. Total protein' 
(mg/L) 
8.3 
12.6 
12.5 
12.8 
14.2 
17.9 
18.5 
19.6 
24.6 
29.6 
and improvements in the effectiveness of this 
treatment option. 
C. COllOIDAL STABILITY 
Colloids can be defined as partially soluble 
components whose distribution between its 
soluble and insoluble phases is dependent on 
the temperature, dielectric properties, and the 
polarity of the surrounding solvent. In juices 
and wines, the colloids can be classified simply 
into proteins (MW = 10,000 to 60,000 Dal­
ton), polysaccharides (MW = 100,000 to 
500,000), and complexes between proteins and 
phenols and between proteins and polysaccha­
rides. However, there is significant variation 
between the protein fractions in terms of 
charge and hydrophobic nature and thinking 
of them as a single group when discussing 
their colloidal behavior is an oversimplifica­
tion. The same can be said of the polysaccha­
rides, where their properties are strongly tied 
to their carbohydrate composition and origin. 
There is relatively little known about the 
nucleation, development, and redissolving of 
colloid particles in general let alone in natural 
products such as wine. However, in terms of 
general solubility concepts, they can remain in 
a state of supersaturation for long periods of 
time before precipitating, and once formed TCA haze2 Heat haze Ethanol haze 
(NTU)B (NTU) (NTU) 
16 3 24 
33 9 40 
88 14 25 
68 28 30 
90 16 24 
100 70 40 
1I7 38 52 
184 52 57 
162 25 25 
242 120 53 
they can produce a suspended phase that is 
not easily redissolved. 
The positively charged character of most 
wine proteins and the negatively charged 
character of some of the polysaccharides may 
lead to additional charge couplings between 
these partially soluble components. The for­
mation of a colloidal envelope around an op­
positely charged ionic component can alter 
the interaction with the solvent causing 
changes in solubility. These changes can ei­
ther increase or decrease the solubility of the 
aggregate, depending on the nature of the 
components. Such combinations of colloids 
are generally referred to as protective colloids. 
They are especially important in aspects of 
physical stability and haze formation in wines 
and can become troublesome when their equi­
librium state has been disturbed by treatments 
such as bentonite fining and filtration through 
charge-modified filter media. A recent study of 
such complexes in red wines is that by Bril­
louet et al. (I 99 1). 
1. The Polysaccharides of Wines 
Polysaccharides can be found in wines at levels 
between 300 mg/l and 1000 mg/L (Usseglio­
Tomasset 1976). They can be divided into two 
main groups, those originating from the grape 
and those released by microorganisms during 
winemaking (Usseglio-Tomasset and Di Ste-fano 1977; Villettaz 1988). Recent advances in 
the rapid quantification of polysaccharide lev­
els has led to significant advances in our 
knowledge of this pool of wine constituents 
(Wucherpfennig and Dietrich 1983; Dubour­
dieu et al. 1986; Dietrich and Zimmer 1989; 
Zimmer et al. 1992). 
The first group includes the pectins, which 
are polymers of galacturonic acid that are 
partially esterified with methyl groups. These 
polysaccharides have molecular weights in the 
range 10,000 to 50,000 and are made up of 
galactose, arabinose, galacturonic acid, rham­
nose, and glucose. The major fractions are 
rhamnogalacturans, arabinogalactans, and 
arabans (Brillouet et al. 1990; Dietrich et al. 
1992). They will also include polymers such as 
the f3 glucan, with a molecular weight in the 
range 100,000 to 1,000,000, produced by 
botrytis infection. This infection also degrades 
the pectin considerably and can double the 
level of other polysaccharides in the juice. 
Heating of musts during thermovinification 
(70Ce, 30 minutes) also increases the pectin 
and neutral polysaccharide content (Mourges 
et al. 1982). 
The second group includes those released 
by yeast during and following fermentation 
and by certain bacteria. The bud scars of Sac­
charomyces have been shown to contain high 
levels of a mannan (Bauer et al. 1972; Aspinall 
1970) and the release of 150 to 300 mgjL of 
polysaccharides (mostly mannan) paralleled 
the yeast population during fermentation 
(Llauberes et al. 1987; Feuillat et al. 1988; 
Dietrich et al. 1992). There are differences 
between the yeast strains, and the effects of 
nutrient availability would be expected to in­
fluence the amount formed by determining 
the extent of yeast growth. The release of f3 
glucan by a lactic acid bacteria has also been 
reported (Llauberes 1990). The continued re­
lease of polysaccharides during the sur L,c'; 
contact has also been demonstrated 
(Parentheon and Feuillat 1978; Llauberes et 
al. 1987; Feuillat et al. 1988). 
A number of the components that have 
been classified as polysaccharide also have a The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 345 
significant protein component and vice versa. 
When this is a structural part of the protein 
they are referred to as glycoproteins. One of 
the fractions associated with the decline in 
filtration flux of a 0.2-JLm pore, ceramic, 
cross-flow filter has been identified as being 
high molecular weight and rich in mannose, 
arabinose, and protein (Belleville et al. 1991). 
The changes in the levels of these polysac­
charides after fermentation will be influenced 
by their ability to remain soluble during aging, 
storage, and wine treatments and their inter­
action with fining agents that might be used. 
There is evidence that some fractions such as 
the arabinogalactans are not appreciably al­
tered during winemaking (Dietrich et al. 1992). 
In general, the level of polysaccharides can 
hamper the clarification by natural settling 
and filtration (Wucherpfennig et al. 1984). The 
recent isolation of a polysaccharide fraction 
(containing primarily mannose and glucose 
with a small protein component) that inter­
feres with the formation of haze during the 
heat test for proteins (Waters et al. 1993), 
raises many questions about the role of 
polysaccharides in all aspects of the physical 
stability of wines. 
The application of sterile filtration with 
pads, perpendicular flow membranes (0.65- or 
0.45-um pore size) or cross-flow microfiltration 
(0.2-JLm pore size) has an insignificant effect 
on the level of polysaccharides in wine. How­
ever, the application of ultrafiltration with 
membranes with MWeO values of 20,000 and 
50,000 Dalton has been shown to remove the 
majority of the polysaccharide from wines (Peri 
et al. 1988; Brillouet et al. 1989; Wucherpfen­
nig and Dietrich 1989). The role of colloidal 
materials in the inhibition of nucleation of 
potassium bitartrate has been known for some 
time but the natural protection offered by 
them is not easily quantified. Recent studies of 
potassium bitartrate stability in wines that have 
been ultrafiltered have shown that they are 
much more unstable than the untreated wine 
(Maujean et al. 1986; Escudier et al. 1987; 
Escudier and Moutounet 1987; Wucherpfen­
nig and Dietrich 1989; Willy et al. 1991). This 346 The Physical and Chemical Stability oj Wine 
is not likely to be an issue since there has been 
little acceptance of ultrafiltration applications 
and the move is toward the use of cross-flow 
microfilters. 
2. Protein-Tannin Complexes 
The addition of protein fining agents for the 
lowering of tannin concentrations is an exam­
ple of a mutual adsorption and a change in 
solubility that can occur between previously 
soluble components. The extent of adsorption 
will not generally be the same for all tannins, 
and the nature of adsorption is such that there 
will be concentrations of the tannins, the pro­
tein, and their complexes remaining in solu­
tion following the precipitation. The soluble 
complex remaining in solution is expected to 
be low in concentration but to behave like a 
colloid in terms of delayed precipitation and 
its response to temperature. In red wines, the 
concentration of tannins is expected to precip­
itate essentially all natural proteins and those 
added at usual levels. In white wines, higher 
concentration of proteins and the lower con­
centrations of tannin suggest that these wines 
are more likely to have both components co­
existing and the potential for significant 
residues of the complex. The effect of pH on 
the solubility of such complexes is similar to 
that of the protein involved (Oh and Hoff 
1987). 
Haze formation between polymeric phenols 
and grape proteins has been demonstrated at 
levels of 66 mg/L for the largest-molecular­
weight tannin fraction in a wine protein solu­
tion (Yokotsuka et al. 1983). Higher amounts 
were required of smaller-molecular-weight 
polymeric phenols to produce similar hazes. 
The non tannin fraction of the phenols was not 
able to form such hazes with the wine pro­
teins. By comparison, when different molecu­
lar weight fractions of gelatin were added to 
solutions of grape tannin or phenolic dimers, 
considerable differences were found in haze 
formation. With the tannin solution there was 
little effect of the molecular weight on the 
amount of haze formation, However, with the dimer solution, haze formation occurred be­
tween the smaller peptide fractions (2,000 and 
5,000 dalton) and the dimer but not with the 
larger-molecular-weight protein fractions 
(Yokotsuka and Singleton 1987). 
These results indicate that the phenol 
dimers and small peptide fractions may be 
significant components in the formation of 
colloidal instability of white wines. There is a 
need for further studies of the size and nature 
of the peptide pool in juices and wines. 
D. IMMOBILIZED AGENTS FOR WINE 
TREATMENT 
1. Immobilized Enzymes 
There are several reasons for the interest in 
the application of immobilized enzymes to 
winemaking. In some cases the activity (in 
terms of pH and ethanol) may be enhanced or 
the stability (in terms of pH, ethanol, and 
temperature) improved over that of the solu­
ble form. The enzyme might be expensive so 
that its recovery and reuse are of economic 
interest. The immobilized enzyme could be 
used in a fixed-bed reactor and its activity 
enhanced by exposing the wine to a warmer 
treatment temperature for short periods of 
time. Such reactors would greatly speed up the 
reaction rate due to the high concentrations 
of the enzyme in it. Enzymes that could be 
considered for such applications are: 
• Proteases-For the hydrolysis of wine pro­
teins and peptides, to enhance colloidal and 
heat stability of white wines, and to replace 
the use of bentonite. In particular, acid pro­
teases and preparations that might be unsta­
ble otherwise in a wine medium (Bakalinsky 
and Boulton 1985). 
• Pectinases-For the hydrolysis of pectins, to 
enhance colloidal stability and perhaps fil­
terability rather than for free-run juice recov­
ery, which is the more common use. 
• Glucanases-For the hydrolysis of B glucans, 
to enhance filterability of late-harvest and 
botrytized wines, as has been demonstrated by the soluble preparations (Dubourdieu et 
al. 1981; Villettaz et al. 1984). Possible en­
hancement of stability and for recovery of an 
expensive and less commonly used enzyme. 
• Ureases-For the hydrolysis of urea, a pre­
cursor of ethyl carbamate if the wine is heated 
in shipment or storage, as has been shown 
with soluble preparations (Trioli and Ough 
1989; Fujinawa et al. 1990). In particular, to 
speed up the hydrolysis by an immobilized 
enzyme reactor. 
• Glucosidases-For the hydrolysis of terpene 
glucosides in cultivars (Muscat, Gewiirztra­
miner, Riesling) rich in them in order to 
enhance their aroma and perhaps to en­
hance colloidal stability in special cases. 
E. REFERENCES 
ABGLJEGUEN, 0., and R. B. BOULTON. 1993. "The 
crystallization kinetics of calcium tartrate from 
model solutions and wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
44:65-75. 
ANELLI, G. 1977. "The proteins of musts." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 28:200-203. 
A'ION. 1976. "Scraped-surface heat exchanger re­
duces wine cold stabilization time." Food Eng. 
48(N ov): 155. 
ASPINALL, G. O. 1970. Polysaccharides. Pergamon 
Press, New York, pp. 89-92. 
BAKALINSKY, A. T., and R. BOULTON. 1985. "The 
study of an immobilized acid protease for the 
treatment of wine proteins." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
36:23-29. 
BALAKIAN, S., and H. W. BERG. 1968. "The role of 
polyphenols in the behavior of potassium bitar­
trate in red wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 19:91-100. 
BAUER, H., M. HORISBERGER, D. A. BUSH, and E. 
SIGARLAKI. 1972. "Mannan as a major compo­
nent of the bud scars of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." 
Arch. Mikrobiol. 85:202-208. 
BAYLY, F. C., and H. W. BERG. 1967. "Grape and 
wine proteins of white wine varietals." Am.]' 
Enol. Vitic. 18:18-32. 
BELLEVILLE, M.-P., J.-M. BRILLOlJET, B. TARODO DE LA 
FUENTE, L. SAL'LNIER, AND M. MOUTOUNET. 1991. 
"Differential roles of red wine colloids in the 
fouling of a cross-flow microfiltration alumina 
membrane." Vitic.Enol. Sci. 46:100-107. The Physical and Chemical Stamlity of Wine 347 
BERG, H. W., and M. AKIYOSHI. 1961. "Determina­
tion of protein stability in wine." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 12:107-110. 
BERG, H. W., and M. AKIYOSHI. 1971. "The utility of 
potassium bitartrate concentration product val­
ues in wine processing." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
22: 127-134. 
BERG, H. W., M. AKiYOSHI, and M. A. AMERINE. 1979. 
"Potassium and sodium content of California 
wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 30:55-57. 
BERG, H. W., R. DESOTO, and M. AKIYOSHI. 1968. 
"The effect of refrigeration, bentonite clarifica­
tion and ion exchange on potassium behavior in 
wines." Am.]' Enol. Vitic. 19:208-212. 
BERG, H. W., and R. M. KEEFER. 1958. "Analytical 
determination of tartrate stability in wine: 1. 
Potassium bitartrate." Am.]. Enol. 9:180-193. 
BERG, H. W., and R. M. KEEFER. 1959. "Analytical 
determination of tartrate stability in wine: 2. 
Calcium tartrate." Am.]. Enol. 10: 105-1 09. 
BLOUIN, J., and A. DESENNE. 1983. "Essai d'un ap­
pareil de traitment des vins par Ie froid en 
continu (Systeme Crystal-flow, Alfa-LavaO." Conn. 
Vigne Vin 17:137-150. 
BLOUI:-.I, J., G. GUIMBERTEAU, and P. AUDOlJlT. 1979. 
"Prevention des precipitations tartriques dans 
les vins par Ie procede par contact." Conn. Vigne 
Vin 13:149-169. 
BOIRET, M., A. MARTY, C. FABREGA, A. GUITTARD, A. 
TIXIER, A. SCHAEFFER, and A. SCHLEWITZ. 1991. 
"Indice de stabilite tartrique des vins et risque 
de precipitation." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 128:53-58. 
BOTT, E. W., and P. SCHOTTLER. 1985. "Optimizing 
tartrate separation through the use of cen­
trifuges." Filtration and Separation 22: 364-365. 
BOULTON, R. 1983. "The conductivity method for 
evaluating the potassium bitartrate stability of 
wines." Pts 1,2. Enology Briefs 2,3 Cooperative 
Extension, Davis, CA: University of California. 
BRADFORD, M. M. 1976. "A rapid and sensitive 
method for the quantitation of microgram quan­
tities of protein utilizing the principle of protein­
dye binding." Anal. Biochem. 72:248-254. 
BRILLOUET, J.-M., M.-P. BELLEVILLE, and M. 
MOUTOUNET. 1991. "Possible protein-polysac­
charide complexes in red wines." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 42:150-152. 
BRILLOUET, J.-M., C. Bosso, and M. MOUTOUNET. 
1990. "Isolation, purification and characteriza-348 The Physical and Chemical StaiJility of Wine 
tion of an arabinogalactan from a red wine." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 41:29-36. 
BRILLOUET, J.-M., M. MOUTOUNET, and J. L. ESCUD­
IER. 1989. "Fate of yeast and grape pectic 
polysaccharides of a young red wine in the 
cross-flow microfiltration process. Vitis 
28:49-63. 
CLARK, J. P., K. C. FUGELSANG, and B. H. GUMP. 
1988. "Factors affecting induced calcium tar­
trate precipitation in wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 
39:155-161. 
CORREA, 1., M. C. POLO, L. AMIGO, and M. RAMos. 
1988. "Separation des proteines des mouts de 
raisin au moyen de techniques electrophore­
tiques." Conn. Vigne Vin. 22:1-9. 
CURVELO-GARCIA, A. S. 1987. "0 producto de solu­
bilidade do tartarato de calcio em meios hidroal­
coolicos em funcao dos sues factores determi­
nantes." Ciencia Tee. Vitiv. 6:19-28. 
DESOTO, R. T., and H. YAMADA. 1963. "Relationship 
of solubility products to long range tartrate sta­
bility." Am.]. Enol. Vitie. 14:43-51. 
DIETRICH, H., H. SCHMITI, and K. WUCHERPFENNIG. 
1992. "The alteration of the colloids of must 
and wine during winemaking. II. Change of the 
charge and molecular weight distribution of the 
polysaccharides." Vitie. Enol. Sci. 47:87-95. 
DIETRICH, H., and E. ZIMMER. 1989. "Die Kol­
loidbestimmung von Weinen: ein Methodenver­
gleich." Mitt. Klost. 44:13-19. 
DOMEIZEL, M., J. GALEA, J. REy, S. MARCHANDEAU, 
and A. GUITIARD. 1992. "Mise au point d'une 
methode de prevision des precipitations tar­
triques dans Ie vin." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 139:15-24. 
DRoux, F., and C. VIALATIE. 1983. "Utilisation du 
procedure "mini contact" pour l'etude des pre­
cipitations tartriques dans Ie vins." Rev. d DenDI. 
29:13-14. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., R.-M. LLAUBERES, and C. OLMER. 
1986. "Estimation rapide des constituants 
macromdeculaires des mouts et des ving par 
chromatographie liquide haute pression de 
tamisage moleculaire." Conn. Vigne Vin. 
20: 119-123. 
DUBOURDIEU, D., J. C. VILLETIAZ, C. DESPLANQUEs, 
and P. RIBEREAu-GAYON, 1981. "Degradation en­
zymatique du glucane de Botrytis cinerea." Conn. 
Vigne Vin 15:161-177. 
DUNSFORD, P., and R. BouLToN. 1981. "The kinetics 
of potassium bitartrate crystallization from table wines. Pts. 1 and 2." Am.J.Enol. Vitie. 32:100-105 
and 106-110. 
EDWARDS, T. L., V. L. SINGLETON, and R. BOULTON. 
1985. "Formation of ethyl esters of tartaric acid 
during wine aging: Chemical and sensory 
changes." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36: 118- 124. 
ESCUDIER, J. L. and M. MOUTOUNET. 1987. "Filtra­
ton tangentielle et stabilisation tartrique des vins. 
II. Apport de la microfiltration tangentialle dans 
la stabilisation tartrique d'un vin rouge." Rev. Fr. 
Oenol. 109:44-50. 
ESCUDIER, J. L., M. MOUTOUNET, and P. BENARD. 
1987. "Filtration tangentielle et stabilisation tar­
trique des vins. I. Influence de l'ultrafiltration 
sur la cinetique de cristallisation du bitartrate de 
potassium des vins." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 108:52-57. 
ESTEVE, J. L. 1988. "La stabilisation des vins contre 
les precipitations tartriques par systeme Crystal­
loprocess." Rev. d DenDI. 47:25-27. 
FEREl\CZI, S., A. AsVANY, and L. ERCZHEGYI. 1982. 
"Stabilisation des vins contre les precipitations 
par Ie froid." Bull. OJ.V. 613:203-220. 
FEUILLAT, M., C. CHARPENTIER, G. PICCA, and P. 
BERNARD. 1988. "Production des colloides par 
levures dans Ie vin mousseux elabore selon la 
methode champenoise." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 
111:36-45. 
FUJINAWA, S., G. BURNS, and P. DE LA TEJA. 1990. 
"Application of acid urease to reduction of urea 
in commercial wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
41 :350- 354. 
FUKUDA, Y. 1992. The behavior of protein fractions 
in white wines. M.S. thesis, Davis, CA: University 
of California. 
GAILLARD, M., B. RATSIMBA, andJ. L. FAVAREL. 1990. 
"Stabilite tartrique des vins: Comparison de dif­
ferents tests, me sure de l'influence des polyphe­
nols." Rev. Fr. Oenol. 123:7-13. 
GAILLARD, M., B. RATSIMBA, and C. LAGUERIE. 1988. 
"La stabilisation tartrique: Reserche d'une plus 
grande securite." Rev. d DenDI. 47:21-23. 
GODSHAL, M. A. 1983. "Interference of plant 
polysaccharides and tannin in the Coomassie 
Blue G250 test for protein." ]. Food Sci. 
48:1346-1347. 
GORTGES, S., and R. STOCKE. 1987. "Minikontakt­
verfahren zur Beurteilung der Calciumtartratsta­
bilitat." Weinwirt. Tech. 123:19-21. 
HAGEN, M. M. 1979. "Les precipitation tartriques." 
Rev. Fr. Oenol. 74:63-69. HAUSHOFER, H., and L. SZEMEUKER. 1973. "Die 
Forderung der Weinsteinausscheidung bei 
Weinen durch Zugabe von Impfkristallen, 
Kratzen an Glaswanden und Anwendung von 
Ultraschall." Mitt. Kloster. 23:259-284. 
INTERESSE, F. S., V. ALLOGIO, F. LAMpORELLI, and G. 
D'AVELlA. 1987. "Proteins in must estimated by 
size exclusion HPLC." Food Chern. 23:65-78. 
JAKOB, L. 1968. "Eiweissgehalt und 
Bentonitschonung von Wein." Wein-Wissen. 
23:255-274. 
JAKOB, L. 1969. "Eiweissgehalt und Eiweissstabilisier 
ung von Wein." Deut. Weinbau. 24:177-189. 
KANTZ, K., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1990. "Isolation 
and determination of polymeric polyphenols us­
ing Sephadex LH-20 and analysis of grape tissue 
extracts." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 41:223-228. 
KEAN, C. E., and G. L. MARsH. 1957. "Investigations 
of copper complexes causing cloudiness in wines. 
l. Chemical composition." Am.]. Enol. 8:80-86. 
LAy, H., and W. LEIB. 1988. "Uber das Vorkommen 
der Metalle Zink, Cadmium, BIei und Kupfer in 
Most, Wein und in den bei der Weinbereitung 
anfallenden Nebenprodukten." Wein-Wissen. 
43:107-115. 
LAy, H., and E. LEMPERLE. 1981. "Kupfergehalt auf 
Weintrauben, in Traubenmost und in Wein nach 
Anwendung kupferhaltiger Peronospora-Fungi­
zide." Weinwirt. 117:908-912. 
LlAUBERES, R. M. 1990. "Structure of an extracellu­
lar f3 D-glucan from Pediococcus sp., a wine lactic 
bacteria." Carbohydr. Res. 203:lO3-lO7. 
LlAUBERES, R. M., D. DUBOURDIEU, and J.-C. VIL­
LETAZ. 1987. "Exocellular polysaccharide from 
Saccharomyces in wine." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
41:277-286. 
MAUJEAN, A., L. SAUSY, and D. VALLEE. 1985. "De­
termination de la saturation en bitartrate de 
potassium d'un Yin. Quantification des effets col­
loides protecteurs." Rev. Fr. Denol. 100:39-49. 
MAujEAN, A., D. VALLEE, and L. SAUSY. 1986. "In­
fluence de la granulometrie des cristaux de tartre 
de contact et des traitements et collages sur la 
cinetique de cristallisation du bitartrate de 
potassium dans les vins blancs." Rev. Fr. Denol. 
lO4:34-4l. 
MORETTI, R. H., and H. W. BERG. 1965. "Variability 
among wines to protein clouding." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 16:69-78. 
MOURGES, J., P. BENARD, A. MATIGNON, T. CONTE, The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 349 
and M. MIKOlAJCZAC. 1982. "Effet du chaufIage 
de la vendage sur la solubilisation des polyosides 
et sur clarification des mouts, des moutes et des 
vin." Sci. Aliments. 2:83-96. 
MULLER, T., and G. WURDIG. 1978. "Das Minikon­
taktverfahren-ein einfacher Test zur PriUung 
auf Weinsteinstabilitat." Weinwirt. 114:857-86l. 
MULLER, T., G. WURDIG, G. SCHOLTEN, and G. 
FRiEDRICH. 1990. "Bestimmung der Calciumtar­
trat- Siittigungstemperatur von Weinen durch 
Leitf<ihigkeitsmessung." Mitt. Kloster. 40: 
158-168. 
MULLER-SPATH, T. 1979. "La stabilisation du tartre 
avec Ie procede a contact." Rev. Fr. Denol. 
73:41-47. 
MURPHEY, J. M., J. R. POWERS, and S. E. SPAYD. 1989. 
"Estimation of soluble protein concentration of 
white wines using Coomassic Brilliant BIue G-
250." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 40:189-193. 
NISHINO, H., and H. TANAHASHI. 1987. "Properties 
of nucleation and crystal growth of potassium 
bitartrate in wine." Proc. 8th Intnl. Denol. Symp., 
Cape Town, South Mrica, 172-193. 
OH, H., and J. E. HOFF. 1987. "pH dependence of 
complex formation between condensed tannins 
and proteins." ].Food Sci. 52:1267-1269. 
OUGH, C. S., E. A. CROWELL, and J. BENZ. 1982. 
"Metal content of California wines." ]. Food Sci. 
47:825-828. 
PAEZOLD, M., L. DUlAu, and D. DUBOURDIEU. 1990. 
"Fractionnement et caracterisation des glyco­
protenes dans les mouts de raisins blancs." ]. Int. 
Sci. Vigne Vin. 24:13-28. 
PARENTHEON, A., and M. FEUILLAT. 1978. "Les col­
loides solubles du Yin de champagne en relation 
avec Ie rumage." Conn. Vigne Vin 3:177-193. 
PERI, C., M. RIvA, and P. DEClO. 1988. "Crossflow 
membrane filtration of wines: Comparison of 
performance of ultrafiltration, microfiltration 
and intermediate cut-off membranes." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 39:162-168. 
PlLONE, F. B., and H. W. BERG. 1965. "Some factors 
affecting tartrate stability in wine." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic.16:195-21l. 
POCOCK, K. F., and B. C. RANKINE. 1973. "Heat test 
for detecting protein instability in wine." Aust. 
Wine Brew. spirit Rev. 91(5):42-43. 
POSTEL, W. 1983. "La solubilite et la cinetique de 
cristallisation du tartrate de calcium dans Ie vin." 
Bull. DI.v. 56(629-630):554-568. 350 The Physical and Chemical Staflility of Wine 
POSTEL, W., and E. PRASCH. 1977. "Das Kontaktver­
fahren, eine neue Moglichkeit der Weinsteinsta­
bilisierung." Weinwirt. 113:866-878. 
READ, S. M., and D. H. NORTHCOTE. 1981. "Minimi­
zation of variation in the response to different 
proteins of the Coomassie Blue G dye-Gin ding 
assay for protein." Anal. Biochem. 116:53-64. 
RHEIN, O. H. 1977. "Weinsteinstabilisierung auf 
natiirlichem Wege." Weinwirt. 113:515-519. 
RHEIN, O. H., and W. KAPPES. 1979. "Weinstein­
Berechnungen." Weinwirt. 115:227-236. 
RHEIN, O. H., and F. NERADT. 1979. "Tartrate stabi­
lization by the Contact process." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 30:265-271. 
RIESE, H., and R. BOULTON. 1980. "Speeding-up 
cold stabilization." Wines and Vines 61:Nov. 
68-69. 
RODRIGUEZ-CLEMENTE, R., and I. CORREA-GOROSPE. 
1988. "Structural, morphological and kinetic as­
pects of potassium hydrogen tartrate precipita­
tion from wines and ethanolic solutions." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 39:169-179. 
SCHMITT, A., R. MILTENBERGER, K. CURSCHMAI'IN, and 
H. KOHLER. 1980. "Einfacher Test zur Bestim­
mung der Weinsteinstabiliiat." Deut. Weinbau 
35:194-196. 
SCOTT, R. S., T. G. A"IDERS, and N. HUMS. 1981. 
Rapid cold stabilization of wine by filtration. 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 32:138-143. 
SERRAl,\O, M., and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1981. "Pre­
vention des precipitations de bitartrate de potas­
sium par Ie procede Vinipal." Conn. Vigne Yin 
15:142-145. 
SPECTOR, T. 1978. "Refinement of the Coomassie 
Blue method of protein quantification." Anal. 
Biochem. 86: 142- 146. 
SUDRAt:D, R., and J. CAYE. 1983. "Elimination du 
calcium du vin par Ie procede par contact util­
isant du tartrate neutre de calcium." Rev. FT. 
Denol. 91: 19-22. 
TAL, M., A. SILBERSTEIN, and E. NUSSER. 1980. "Why 
does Coomassie Brillant Blue R interact differ­
ently with different proteins? A partial answer." 
]. Biol. Chem. 260:9976-9980. 
TRIOLI, G. and C. S. OUGH. 1989. "Causes for inhi­
bition of an acid urease from lactobacillus fermen­
tus." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 40:245-252. 
TROUSDALE, E. K., and R. B. BOULTON. 1987. "The 
fractionation and quantification of wine proteins by three HPLC methods." Proc. 38th. Ann. Meet­
ing, Am. Soc. Enol. Vitic, p. 16. 
TYsON, P. J., E. S. LUIS, W. R. DAY, and T. H. LEE. 
1981. "Estimation of soluble protein in must 
and wine by high performance liquid chro­
matography." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 32:241-243. 
TYSON, P. J., E. S. Lt:IS, and T. H. LEE. 1980. "Solu­
ble protein levels in grapes and wine." Proc. 
Cent. Symp., Davis, CA: University of California. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L. 1976. "Les colloides glu­
cidiques soluble des mouts et des vins." Conn. 
Vigne Yin 10:193-226. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L., and R. DI STEFANO. 1977. 
"Osservazioni sui costituenti azotati dei colloidi 
dei mosti, dei vini e dei colloidi ceduti dallievito 
al substrato fermentativo." Rev. Vitic. Enol. 
11:1-20. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L., M. UBIGLI, and L. BARBERO. 
1992. "The potassium acid tartrate oversatura­
tion in wines." Bull. DJ.v. 739-740:703-719. 
VALLEE, D., A. BAGARD, C. BLOY, P. BLOY, and L. 
BOURDE. 1990. "Appreciation de la stabilite tar­
trique des vins par la temperature de saturation 
-Influence du facteur temps sur la stabilite 
(duree de stockage)." Rev. Fr. Denol. 126:51-61. 
VIALATTE, C. 1984. "Test de stabilite bitartrate de 
potassium (Boulton)." Rev. Denol. 34:20. 
VIALATTE, G. 1979. "Stabilisation des vins en con­
tinu, vis-a-vis, du bitartrate de potassium." Rev. 
FT. Denol. 73:67-71. 
VILLETTAZ, J.-c. 1988. "Les colloides du mout et du 
vin." Rev. FT. Denol. 111:23-27. 
VILLETTAZ, J.-c., D. STEINER, and H. TROGUS. 1984. 
"The use of a beta-glucanase as an enzyme in 
wine clarification and filtration." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 35:253-256. 
WALTER, E. G. 1970. "Stabilization of wine by pas­
sage through a column of potassium hydrogen 
tartrate crystals." U.S. Patent 3,498,795. 
WATERS, E.J., W. WALlACE, and P.J. WILLIAMS. 1991. 
"Heat haze characteristics of fractionated wine 
proteins." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 42:123-127. 
WATERS, E. J., W. WALLACE, M. E. TATE, and P. J. 
WILLIAMS. 1993. "Isolation and partial character­
ization of a natural haze protective factor from 
wine."]' Agric. Food Chem. 41:724-730. 
WILLY, J., R. WEINARD, and H. DIETRICH. 1991. 
"Beeinflusst Crossflow die Weinsteinstabilitat?" 
Weinwirt. Tech. 127:24-29. WUCHERPFENNIG, K., and H. DIETRICH. 1983. "Be­
stimmung des Kolloidgehaltes von Weinen." 
Lebens. 15:246-253. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K., and H. DIETRICH. 1989. "The 
importance of colloids for clarification of musts 
and wines." Vitic.Enol. Sci. 44:1-12. 
WUCHERPFENNIG, K., H. DIETRICH, and R. FAUTH. 
1984. "Uber den Einfluss von Polysacchariden 
auf die Kiarung und Filterfahigkeit von Weinen 
unter besonderer Beriicksichtigung des Botrytis­
glucans." Deut. Lebens. Rund. 80:38-44. 
WURDIG, G. 1976. "Schleimsaure-ein Inhaltsstoff 
von Weinen aus botrytisfaulem Lesegut." Wein­
wirt. 112(1-2):16-17. 
WURDIG, G., T. MULLER, and G. FRIEDRICH. 1980a. 
"Methode pour caracteriser la stabilite du vin 
vis-a-vis du tartre par determination de la tem­
perature de saturation." Bull. O.I.V. 
613:220-228. 
WURDIG, G., T. MULLER, and G. FRIEDRICH. 1980b. 
"Untersuchungen zur Weinsteinstabilitat. Bes­
timmung der Sattigungstemperatur von Weinen 
durch Leitfahigkeitsmessung." Weinwirt. 
116:720-726. 
WURDIG, G., T. MULLER, and G. FRIEDRICH. 1983. 
"Priifung auf W einsteinstabilitat in The Physical and Chemical Stability of Wine 351 
Traubensaften durch Bestimmung der Wein­
steinsattigungstemperatur." Fluss. Obst. 50: 
564-568. 
WURDIG, G., T. MULLER, and G. FRIEDRICH. 1985. 
"Untersuchungen zur Weinsteinstabilitat. 3. Mit­
teilung: Bestimmung der Weinsteinsattigungs­
temperatur durch verbesserte Leitfahigkeitmes­
sung." Weinwirt. Tech. 121:188-191. 
YOKOTSUKA, K., K. NOZUKI, and T. KUSHIDA. 1983. 
"Turbidity formation caused by interaction of 
must proteins with wine tannins." ]. Ferm. Tech­
nolo 61:413-416. 
YOKOTSUKA, K., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1987. "Inter­
active precipitation between graded pep tides 
from gelatin and specific grape tannin fractions 
in wine-like model solutions." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
38:199-206. 
YOKOTSUKA, K., M. YOSHII, T. AIHARA, and T. 
KUSHIDA. 1977. "Isolation and characterization 
of proteins from juices, musts and wines from 
Japanese grapes." ]. Ferm. Technol. 55:510-515. 
ZIMMER, E., C.-D. PATZ, and H. DIETRICH. 1992. 
"Direct determination of molecular weight dis­
tribution of high molecular substances in wines 
and juices." Vitic.Enol. Sci. 47:121-129. CHAPTER 9 
MICROBIOLOGICAL SPOILAGE OF WINE 
AND ITS CONTROL 
This chapter includes the descriptions and ori­
gins of various kinds of microbiological 
spoilage organisms-and the prevention of 
their presence and the control of their growth 
if present. It is important for the winemaker to 
know which spoilage has occurred in any given 
instance and to understand potential spoilage 
problems, but obviously it is better to forestall 
spoilage than to diagnose it. The taxonomic 
identifications of the yeasts are given in Chap­
ter 4, and the lactic acid bacteria in Chapter 6. 
For the aerobic bacteria, the taxonomies are 
given at the end of this chapter. 
A. DEFINITIONS OF 
MICROBIOLOGICAL SPOILAGE 
Microbiological spoilage organisms can be said 
to be any of those which are unwanted at a 
particular place and time. Obviously, this in­
cludes those organisms which produce off­
flavors, odors, colors, or precipitates, or have 
the potential to do so, under the conditions of 
the present and future storage of the wine. 
However, this definition also includes bona 
352 fide desirable wine yeast and bacteria when 
they are unwanted in a particular wine, for 
example, Montrachet yeast in semidry bottled 
wine or Leuconostoc oenos ML34 in bottled wine 
susceptible to malolactic fermentation. To 
complicate further the definition of microbio­
logic spoilage, one has to come to a decision 
on with which flavors, odors, colors, and tur­
bidities are to be considered "off." Sediments 
may be acceptable in aged red wines; oxidized, 
aldehydic tones and brown hues are required 
in sherries; and slightly reduced, sulfurous 
notes might be found in aged sparkling wines. 
Another complication is that the distinct scents 
of wine from certain geographic regions, while 
being expected in those wines, are unaccept­
able-spoiled-in others, but have nothing to 
do with microbial spoilage: for example, foxi­
ness or muscadine flavors in wines made from 
American grape varieties. Another complica­
tion is that sometimes the acceptance of dis­
tinct odors and flavors caused by certain mi­
crobes is controversial, as those seem to be 
which are caused by Brettanomyces yeast (Sec­
tion F.6). And finally, one more complication to add to the list is that wine makers may 
become so accustomed to their own wines that 
unusual flavors and odors-unacceptable to 
other tasters-are unnoticed. Winemakers are 
admonished habitually to taste the wines of 
other producers and to have their own wines 
habitually tasted by sensitive colleagues. 
B. ORIGINS OF WINE SPOILAGE 
MICROORGANISMS 
The source of microorganisms, good and bad, 
in the winery comes mainly from infections in 
the winery cooperage and winery equipment, 
especially the equipment used at the grape 
reception area and used for the transport of 
must or juice into the winery. 
This idea flies in the face of the assumption 
that most of the natural microorganisms found 
in wine must arise from the vineyard. How­
ever, on sound, healthy, and intact grapes, the 
berry surface is not much different than that 
which would be found on any inert surface 
outdoors. It is true that the wild yeasts, such as 
Kloeckera and Hansenula, are exceptional; they 
are found on healthy berries-near the pedi­
cel. Their presence may be related to the 
expectation that the grape skin surface at this 
region seems to allow some contact with the 
nutrients within (Belin 1972; Belin and Henry 
1972). These nutrients, having a high content 
of sugars and a low pH, are selectively attrac­
tive to these yeasts. Why the presence of a 
correspondingly high concentration of wine 
yeast, that is, strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
(Chapter 4, Section A.2), is also not found is 
not clear. 
Of course not all of the grapes are healthy; 
breaks in the skin arise from normal condi­
tions such as strong winds brushing berries 
against each other or against the woody parts 
of the vine. These breaks in the skin then 
allow unrestricted growth of all sorts of mi­
croorganisms. Other sources of breakage of 
the skins are bird pecks, hail, or even heavy 
rainstorms. So it could be expected that even 
under the best conditions of berry ripening, a Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 353 
substantial portion of the berries would give 
some exposure of the contents and allow 
enough growth of all sorts of organisms giving 
an incipient infection in the juice or must 
when it arrives inside the winery. 
The description given several years ago (van 
der Walt and van Kerken 1958, 1961) of the 
origins of Brettanomyces spoilage in some wines 
in South Mrica can serve as the scenario for 
the origins of many kinds of infections, includ­
ing those of both good and bad wine mi­
crobes. In the Brettanomyces work it was discov­
ered that during the crushing and destem­
ming operations there was some buildup of 
the infecting organisms in the pools of juice 
associated with this equipment. Acceptance of 
only the most healthy fruit and interruption of 
the crushing operations and washing of the 
equipment from time to time would tend to 
minimize this buildup. However, as mentioned 
above, even the most healthy fruit is not com­
pletely devoid of all unwanted organisms. Fur­
thermore, the washing operations, if not done 
thoroughly enough, might only aggravate the 
situation. That is, the dilution of the grape 
juice brings about a lowered concentration of 
sugar and an increased pH, and an encour­
agement of growth of various yeast and bacte­
ria. This is especially true when pools of di­
luted grape juice are left standing for an ex­
tended time, such as overnight. To continue 
with the scenario, the diluted pools of juice 
can serve as ideal starter culture media for all 
sorts of microorganisms. Contamination from 
them eventually reaches into the winery, into 
fermenting juice and eventually into stored 
wine. When this sort of starter culture comes 
in contact with undiluted juice and wine, then 
only those that thrive on anaerobic conditions 
at low pH and probably cooler temperature, 
that is to say, the wine-related microorganisms, 
will survive. And if nutrients are available, they 
will grow. The conclusion of the scenario is 
that if even a single, viable organism under 
these conditions finds its way into a demijohn, 
barrel, or tank of wine, with enough time, this 
organism can multiply to spoilage concentra­
tions. 354 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
This same scenario can apply to all sorts of 
wine spoilage organisms, and even to desirable 
wine organisms, including wine strains of Sac­
charomyces cerevisiae and coveted malolactic 
bacteria. 
In the Brettanomyces studies, the proper pre­
vention was found to be in very thorough 
cleaning of the crushing equipment and of the 
piping or hoses from the reception area into 
the winery, including judicious use of sulfur 
dioxide to aid in sanitizing. This means that 
every several hours, there should be a com­
plete halt to the operations and thorough 
enough washings of the equipment to leave no 
diluted pools of juice. The washing operations 
needed to be especially thorough at the end of 
the day, and at the beginning of the next. 
Where continuous crushing is done, very thor­
ough washing operations should be made sev­
eral times during each 24-hour period. Such 
washing is not a sterilization procedure, but 
helps prevent buildup of contaminants. 
We have found that the piping or hoses 
transporting the juice and must into the win­
ery can be very susceptible to accumulation of 
contaminating microbes. In one winery with 
an especially difficult situation with Bret­
tanomyces infection, the piping was under­
ground and made a right angle from the re­
ception to the winery. Over the years, the 
bend in the piping had allowed a collection of 
a large mass of material, which sheltered all 
sorts of contaminants, some seemingly carry­
ing over from season to season. The contami­
nation problem was solved only by unearthing 
and replacing the piping, and redirecting it to 
give only gentle curvatures. 
Microbes also enter the winery simply com­
ing in with wine from another facility for stor­
age or possibly to be blended. We know of 
another example where it was not realized 
that the incoming wine harbored a moderate 
concentration of Brettanomyces. This wine was 
used for topping of barrels, and indeed con­
taminated essentially the entire winery. 
Although these examples have to do with 
Brettanomyces, they apply equally to other yeasts 
and bacteria as well. The resident microbial population, good and bad, in a winery where 
starter cultures of yeast and bacteria have not 
been used, arises in these ways. Prevention 
includes the special cleaning operations we 
have outlined above plus stringent control 
measures concerning wine coming into the 
winery: knowing where it came from and where 
it is going. This applies equally to equipment 
and barrels, especially if previously used else­
where. 
C. DIAGNOSIS OF SPOILAGE AS 
MICROBIOLOGICAL 
Before making a diagnosis of the kind of 
spoilage of a particular wine, which is what 
this chapter is about, it is important to ascer­
tain that the spoilage is indeed of microbial 
origin. Besides noting the smell, taste, and 
appearance of the spoiled wine, it is helpful 
for the investigator to be familiar with the 
history of the production of the wine and the 
various operations involved. Hazes and tur­
bidities are of many types and sources, espe­
cially protein, metaloprotein, carbohydrate, 
organic acids-sometimes crystalline and 
sometimes amorphous-all discussed in Chap­
ter 7. Off-odors include oxidations, giving 
aldehydic tones (Chapter 4), and reductions, 
giving sulfurous notes (Chapter 4), all of which 
may involve the yeast employed for the pri­
mary fermentation, itself, but the spoilage aris­
ing from improper winemaking conditions. 
The operative step in diagnosis is the use of 
the microscope. If the spoilage is microbiolog­
ical, and if it is recent and the wine has been 
untreated, the spoilage organisms will be obvi­
ous by microscopic examination. We recom­
mend for this examination, and for all of the 
microscopic work described here, the use of a 
binocular microscope fitted with oil-immer­
sion and phase-contrast optics. It is essentially 
impossible to distinguish microscopically some 
wine bacteria from common grape debris 
without using the highest magnification with 
phase contrast (Figure 9-1). Viable stains can 
be employed to distinguish live organisms from , . ". 
10pm 'I : .... ;., . 
j!"' ... ~ 
.. 1 .... 1'-, . , - f • ~ , 
) " :.tJ { 
'10 I 4 .: '\ . 'i J! 
~ , -'\ ' '-,-
l W-, , 
... ,,-, \ . ~ " , ,i ! • . ... 
Fig. 9·1. Photomicrographs of Leuconostoc oenos ML 34 
grown on grape juice medium for use as starter cultures. 
Arrows indicate non bacterial debris from grapes. (From 
Kunkee 1974, used by permission.) 
dead ones and from other debris, but in our 
experience, the convenience of phase-contrast 
optics outweighs the difficulties and uncertain­
ties in the use of stains. With either viewing 
method, with staining or without, in order to 
see bacteria at high magnification, the bacte­
ria need to be at a rather high concentration. 
About 106 bacteria/mL are needed for ob­
serving a few cells per viewing field at high 
magnifications (lOOOx). Of course, one may 
scan multiple fields. Some wine microbiolo­
gists have suggested that the wine be cen­
trifuged to concentrate the microorganisms; 
however, we have found this unnecessary if the 
spoilage is fresh, and never helpful in other 
cases. If the wine is very turbid but no mi­
croorganisms are seen under the microscope, 
undoubtedly much amorphous or crystalline 
material will be seen. In this case, the spoilage 
is probably of physical or chemical origin, and 
other diagnostic tests should be employed 
(Chapter 8). Sometimes remnants of cells, 
ghosts, or other materials appearing to be 
parts of cell walls, are found. This in itself Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 355 
gives little clue as to the identity of the spoilage 
agent. 
As important as the microscopic detection 
of the spoilage agents is the appraisal as to 
whether they are alive or not. Viability is best 
determined by spreading (plating) a small 
sample (0.1 or 0.2 mL) of the wine onto a solid 
nutrient medium in a Petri dish with the aid of 
a sterile pipette. The spreading is done with a 
Pasteur pipette, which has been sealed at one 
end and bent at right angles about 3 cm from 
that end in the form of a miniature hockey 
stick; the fashioning of the hockey stick being 
easily done with the use of a Bunsen burner. 
The hockey stick is sterilized by being dipped 
into ethanol, or other alcohol, and then 
touched momentarily to a flame (but not 
flamed, itself) to burn off the alcohol. The 
specific kinds of nutrient media to be used for 
the plating are given below . When a number 
of wines are to be examined, several samples 
can be placed on one plate by use of an 
inoculating loop, using one-fourth or one-third 
of the plate for each plating. This puts about 
1 % of the number of cells on the plate for 
each sample as compared with the larger sam­
ple of 0.1 or 0.2 mL. Some wine microbiolo­
gists suggest in order to assure the presence of 
enough viable cells per sample, that a sterile 
membrane filter be used. A larger sample of 
the wine is filtered though the sterile mem­
brane, and the membrane is incubated on the 
nutrient medium-as is done with quality con­
trol of sterile bottling of wine (Chapter 11). 
Again, we have never had difficulty in obtain­
ing viable cells by the use of the direct plating 
method, except with very old wines or wine 
treated subsequent to spoilage. 
With some organisms, for example, some 
strains of Lactobacillus fructivorans, the un­
adapted cells do not grow well at first as sur­
face colonies. In these cases the initial inocula­
tions can be made in a liquid medium, usually 
containing ethanol to prevent the growth of 
extraneous microbes (Appendix F). 
Diagnosis of the microbiological causes of 
old or treated spoiled wines may be impossible 
using the techniques just outlined. Specula-356 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
tions based on chemical and sensory analyses 
may be the only alternative, if tenuous, av­
enues available. 
Also difficult is the detection of incipient 
spoilage, especially if no sensory irregularities 
are as yet noticed. Again, concentration of the 
organisms by centrifugation has not proved 
helpful. The detection of any specific end 
products, such as those which might be pro­
duced by Brettanomyces yeast (Section F.6), may 
be far more sensitive than the microbiological 
methods, and far more useful in these cases. 
A special, but very important, situation has 
to do with wines which contain very low, but 
real, concentrations of a spoilage yeast, for 
example, Brettanomyces, and in spite of which a 
marketing decision has been made to bottle 
the wine without removal of the spoilage or­
ganisms by filtration. Neither plating tech­
niques nor microscopic examinations are go­
ing to be practical in predicting the percent­
age of bottles which will end up with one or 
more of the spoilage cells. Determination of 
the concentration of this yeast by the use of 
filtration of small samples though sterile mem­
branes as described above is not practical since 
the wine has previously not been filtered and 
the membrane will silt up immediately. Fur­
thermore, microscopic examination is inef­
fectual since the concentration of this yeast is 
far too low to be noticed in the microscopic 
field, even at moderate magnification, except 
by chance. A procedure which has probably 
never been reduced to practice in this situa­
tion, since it is labor-intensive and because it 
utilizes large volumes of wine, is application of 
the Poisson distribution (Taylor 1962; Meynell 
and Meynell1965) to determine the MPN (the 
most probable number) of cells in a sample. 
For this, relatively large volumes of the wine to 
be bottled, say, 100-mL portions, are supple­
mented with, say, 900-mL of a sterile nutrient 
medium, incubated, and later assessed for 
growth, that is, increased turbidity-which will 
have taken place only in those samples which 
contained one or more viable cells. Solve the 
Poisson equation: p = e-m where p is the 
proportion (the probability) of lots having no viable cells with no increase in turbidity (and 
1 -P is the proportion of lots having in­
creased turbidity). Solving for m gives the 
mean concentration of the cells in the undi­
luted wine. Taylor (1962) and Meynell and 
Meynell (1965) have provided tables giving the 
MPN depending upon the number of serial 
(10-fold) dilutions, and the scoring of numbers 
of turbid and not turbid samples within each 
dilution. The alternatives are for the wine pro­
ducer to be content with the empirical results 
of the bottling, hoping for a low number of 
returned bottles; or resorting to filtration of 
the wine. 
Another situation where spoilage is difficult 
to assess is in stored bottled wine awaiting 
shipment, in which the quality control results 
obtained after a supposedly sterile bottling 
(Chapter ll) show evidence of contamination. 
As contrasted to the above situation, each of 
the bottles here is expected to have the same, 
if small, concentration of contaminating or­
ganisms. The most expensive recourse is 
dumping, an enological term for the opening 
of all of the bottles and emptying all of the 
contents, making necessary salvaging adjust­
ments and rebottling or selling the product off 
as bulk wine. Before the dumping order is 
given, it should be realized that the quality 
control procedures may detect cells grown in 
the enriched medium used for this, whereas 
the organisms in the stored wine may not be 
vigorous enough to grow in the nutritionally 
deficient wine. An assessment of the concen­
tration of cells in the stored bottles should be 
made periodically. If the cell concentration 
remained steady or decreased, the product 
could be deemed safe for shipment. However, 
if the concentration showed a continual in­
crease, dumping would eventually be the only 
recourse. 
D. KINDS OF MICROBIOLOGICAL 
SPOILAGES OF WINE 
Even before the understanding of the biologi­
cal nature of what we now know as microbio-logical spoilages of wine, various names had 
been applied to various kinds. For example, 
Pasteur (1866) used common descriptors such 
as toume (turned) and pousse (pushed, as in 
pushing the cork?) for wines having unwanted 
secondary fermentations without and with gas 
production, respectively (Vaughn 1955; Kun­
kee 1967). Pasteur recognized these spoilages 
as being biological. However, his identifica­
tions were more or less restricted to micro­
scopic examinations of the spoilage organisms, 
and to his excellent hand drawings of these. It 
was not until later, with the establishment of 
techniques for cultivation of single strains that 
a wine spoilage could be identified with the 
predominate organism involved (Hansen 1896; 
Kunkee 1984). It is now common practice to 
name a wine spoilage by the microorganism 
responsible for it (Kunkee 1967; Amerine et 
al. 1980); although this information may come 
'not only from identification of the major con­
taminant, but also from recognition of the 
symptoms (see below). Some workers have sug­
gested that spoilages are generally associated 
with a succession of various microorganisms 
(Luthi 1957) (Section G.3). There have been 
experimental demonstrations of this; for ex­
ample, the induction of a malolactic fermenta­
tion by a leuconostoc strain has resulted in an 
increased pH in the wine to allow a further 
growth of a less acid-tolerant pediococcal strain 
(Chapter 6). In fact, in our examinations of 
some very spoiled wines, sometimes we have 
found yeast together with aerobic and anaero­
bic bacteria; but as far as we know, each of 
these classes represented a single strain of say, 
Brettanomyces, Lactobacillus, and Acetobacter. 
More generally, we have found that spoilages 
can be considered to have originated from a 
single organism, and from this we can name 
the spoilage. Although, precise naming of 
wine-related microorganisms with respect to 
species is complex, and respect to strains, ex­
ceedingly difficult, the classifications of 
spoilage by the main type of organism, say the 
genus, is relatively simple. Thus, we may speak 
of spoilage coming from a deleterious strain of 
Lactobacillus; an infection by Brettanomyces; Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 357 
refermentation of semidry bottled wine by a 
bona fide wine strain of Saccharomyces; or vine­
gary spoilage by Acetobacter. If we divide the 
kinds of spoilage grossly as arising from yeast, 
anaerobic bacteria, or aerobic bacteria, we can 
discuss them, below, in this order. However, 
another helpful description, implied in the 
above examples, is the distinction between 
wines spoiled during storage in cellars as com­
pared to those spoiled after they have been 
bottled, and thus, the classifications by organ­
ism will be so subdivided. The significance of 
presence of large populations of molds associ­
ated with the grapes at harvest will also be 
discussed, even though as strict aerobes they 
do not grow in properly managed wine. 
E. IDENTIFICATION OF WINE 
SPOILAGE MICROORGANISMS 
1. Importance of Identification 
Guides for step-by-step identification of types 
of wine spoilages often rely heavily on a de­
scriptive analysis or gross sensory assessment of 
the wine: giving expected odors, color, turbid­
ity, gassiness, etc. We indicated above that this 
is an important first step-and historically, 
pre-Pasteur, it was the only one. The employ­
ment of such guides, along with ascertaining 
as much as possible about the production of 
the wine, can give the investigator a head start 
as to the cause and solution of the problem. 
However, it must be emphasized that no real 
understanding of the spoilage is obtained until 
and unless the nature of the causative agent is 
found; that is, until the spoilage microorgan­
ism has been identified. 
Obviously, once the identification is made, 
the corrective and future preventative mea­
sures, taken from the literature or from the 
winemakers previous experience, can be ap­
plied. Some identifications may require a long 
period, and the spoilage problem may have 
been corrected by measures empirically de­
rived before the microorganism has been 358 Microbiological spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
identified. Nevertheless, it is worthwhile to 
continue the identification procedures to fi­
nality. The remedial operations, even if empir­
ical, provide a background of appropriate pro­
cedures to be immediately instituted, if the 
spoilage comes again-and after a quicker, if 
presumptive, identification of the returned in­
fection is made. 
2. Cultivation, Isolation, and Purification 
of Wine Microbes 
Preliminary to the microscopic examination of 
a spoiled wine, a macroscopic examination of 
the wine should be recorded. One should note 
the off-color, turbidity, off-odors, and perhaps 
off-taste. It is helpful to know if malolactic 
fermentation has occurred, and to know, or 
determine, the free S02 content, pH, and 
volatile acidity. Following this, microscopic ex­
amination is vital. One should look for yeasts 
or bacteria, and for amorphous or crystalline 
materials. If microbes are present, a tentative 
identification from the morphology should be 
made, and an estimation of cell numbers (Ap­
pendix H). While this tentative identification 
can be made from the cell morphology, and 
this may give a head start for the further tests, 
it must be emphasized that conclusive results 
cannot be obtained from microscopic exami­
nation alone. 
However, it is valid for an experienced wine 
microbiologist to conclude immediately 
whether the organisms are yeasts or bacteria 
from the microscopic appearance. The yeast 
are generally obviously larger than the bacte­
ria; although, some larger Acetobacter may ap­
proach the size of some of the smallest yeast. 
The difference in type of cell division is an 
easy guide for differentiation: all of the wine 
bacteria divide by fission, and essentially all of 
the wine yeast divide by budding. Schizosaccha­
romyces, a fission yeast, is the exception, but 
they are large and are not to be confused with 
bacteria. However, in spoiled wine the organ­
isms may be in the resting phase, and the 
determination of cell division morphology may have to wait until the cells have been 
cultivated. 
If the spoilage seems to be of microbiologi­
cal origin, platings of the wine onto solid 
media are then made, as described above, not 
only to determine that the organisms are vi­
able, but also to obtain viable material to use 
in the identification tests. For yeast, a wort or 
malt medium is used (Appendix F), with or 
without added cycloheximide (Acti-dione®). 
The use of cycloheximide provides a prelimi­
nary screening for Brettanomyces spp. (Section 
F.6). For bacteria, a modified de Man, Rogosa 
and Sharpe (MRS) medium (de Man et al. 
1960), containing malic acid, cycloheximide, 
and fruit juice, for example, apple Rogosa 
medium (Appendix F) is used. If vinegar bac­
teria (Acetobacter) are suspected, by their 
mixed, swollen, and curved morphologies 
(Section H), culturing might also be done on a 
very acid medium (Appendix F). The special 
case of Lactobacillus jructiv(ffans has been men­
tioned (Chapter 6). If the presence of this 
organism is suspected, a 10% inoculum of this 
wine should be made into liquid apple Rogosa 
medium containing 6% ethanol (Appendix F). 
For identification tests, it is important to 
have in hand not only the viable culture, but 
also a pure one. The isolation and purification 
procedures of the spoilage organisms de­
scribed here can, of course, be applied as 
preidentification steps for any wine-related mi­
crobes, including the selection of in-house res­
ident yeast or bacteria to be used eventually as 
starter cultures. 
The inoculated plates should be incubated 
at room temperature or slightly above. Yeast 
colonies may appear in two days; bacteria may 
take two weeks. When colonies appear, their 
macroscopic morphology should be noted. A 
microscopic reexamination of the wine and of 
the cells of the colony is suggested to compare 
their cellular morphologies. The comparisons 
may not be exact, since the cells were cultured 
under very different growth conditions. 
Mter colonies have appeared, one colony 
should be selected for the isolation procedure (restreaking) (see below), to separate this or­
ganism from others. In fact, there may be a 
mixture of organisms on the plate, which is 
apparent by differences in colony appearance. 
Of course, similar appearances do not guaran­
tee similar organisms. However, the selection 
of a colony, or colonies, is not so complicated 
as it at first might seem. Ecological studies, 
such as determination of the yeast population 
on a ripe grape berry, are truly difficult. For 
that, each colony from each yeast cell needs to 
be selected and identified. On the contrary, in 
the study of spoiled wine, it is expected there 
is a preponderance of the spoilage organism(s), 
and the colonies formed are going to reflect 
this narrow diversity. In our experience, 
spoilages and the resulting colonies formed 
from them, may represent the action of a 
mixture of more than one kind of microor­
ganism; but we have been satisfied in the as­
sumption that only one strain of each kind is 
present. For firmer grounding of this assump­
tion, acid-base color indicators can be added 
to the medium to give an additional marker to 
colonies, depending on the acid production, 
which would otherwise be missed. The Waller­
stein Laboratory nutrient medium and differ­
ential medium recipes (Appendix F) include 
the addition of brom-cresol green and they 
can be used for this. However, see the discus­
sion on Brettanomyces (Section F.6) for some 
other difficulties with these two media. 
The restreaking is made by touching the 
selected colony with a sterile loop, and making 
a streak or two toward the edge of another 
fresh Petri dish of nutrient medium. The loop 
is then sterilized (flamed) and cooled (touched 
to the agar )-and a second streak is made 
across the first one (Figure 9-2). This process is 
repeated, crossing the sterile loop over the last 
part of the previous streak. This procedure 
guarantees, no matter how few or how many 
cells were taken up with the first pass of the 
loop, that growth will result in at least a few 
isolated colonies. Following incubation of the 
isolation plate, the process is repeated using 
one of the isolated colonies to give a purified Microbiological spoilage of Wine and Its Control 359 
Fig. 9·2. Proper streaking methodology for obtaining 
isolated colonies. 
culture on the third plate. Finally, one of the 
purified colonies should be transferred to an 
agar slant for yeast or aerobic bacteria and a 
stab culture for lactic acid bacteria. It may be 
well to make up several of these slants or stabs, 
in order not only to have copies of the organ­
ism for culture collection storage, but also to 
have abundant culture material for the identi­
fication tests to follow. It is also helpful to 
make up some liquid cultures for some of the 
tests. 
The purification of the culture should be 
followed with microscopic examination, bear­
ing in mind there may be morphological di­
versity even in pure cultures, especially with 
some yeast and some acetobacter. In stubborn 
cases of separation of yeast from bacteria, the 
isolation may be aided by a thorough suspen­
sion and mixing of a loopful of the culture in 
sterile nutrient medium. A loop of this mate­
rial is then streaked out, as given above. In very 
stubborn cases, antibiotics and fungicides have 
been used, but we have never had to resort to 
this. 
The isolated and purified cultures are then 
ready for the identification tests, which follow. 360 Micromological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
F. SPOILAGE BY MOLDS AND YEASTS 
1. Spoilage by Molds 
We have discussed many molds that might be 
found on the grapes in the vineyard (Chapter 
4). Nevertheless, spoilage by growth of molds 
in must or wine in itself does not pose a 
problem. The low pH of grape juice and the 
anaerobic conditions of the vinification fer­
mentation renders them harmless, even if they 
might come into the winery by the scenario 
described above. However, the attack of grapes 
by molds before or at the time of harvest can 
have an important spoilage effect. 
The conditions which allow a serious mold 
infection in the vineyard are variable and in­
clude temperature, humidity, wind conditions, 
grape variety, and viticulture practices such as 
irrigation regimes, canopy management, and 
fungicide applications. In addition, except for 
Botrytis cinerea, mold infections require some 
sort of break in the skin of the berry; not an 
infrequent happening (see above). Botrytis 
cinerea seems to be able to perforate the berry 
skin without this extra assistance (Coley-Smith 
et al. 1980). A substantial infection of the 
grapes at the time of harvest becomes of great 
concern to the winemaker. Either while still 
on the vine, or more likely, during the trans­
port of the grapes from the vineyard to the 
winery, there is an exposure of the juice of the 
broken berries to whatever microorganisms 
are present. This can bring about a premature 
alcoholic fermentation by wild yeast, and the 
resulting low concentrations of ethanol can be 
oxidized to acetic acid by acetic acid bacteria. 
In extreme situations, the concentration of 
acetic acid can be high enough to have an 
important detrimental effect on the metabolic 
activity of the wine yeast and result in a slug­
gish or protracted fermentation (Drysdal and 
Fleet 1989) (Chapter 4). Acetaldehyde is also 
often found. The damage is exacerbated by 
high ambient temperature and long transport 
distances. Whether mechanical or hand har­
vesting is used also plays a role. Mechanically harvested berries have broken skins and ex­
posed juice; however, precautions are often 
taken to prevent premature fermentation by 
keeping the transport distances short (which 
may include field crushing), by addition of 
sulfur dioxide at harvest, and by harvesting 
during the coolest hours. Furthermore, most 
mechanical harvesting strategies remove and 
collect only the heavy, intact berries, leaving 
those light from mold infections behind. 
2. Corkiness 
Corkiness is a term applied to a moldy smell of 
some corks, and to the wine into which the 
unpleasant smell migrated. The defect is gen­
erally found only in a few percentage of bot­
tles with cork stoppers. This percentage is high 
enough to be financially unacceptable to the 
wineries-although it has not been high 
enough to allow for a good grasp on the 
origin of the problem. The microbiological 
implications in corkiness are not clear 
(Lefebvre et al. 1983; Davis et al. 1982). The 
problem, and some solutions, are discussed in 
detail in Chapter 10, Section G. 
3. Spoilage by Wild Yeasts 
We do not think of wild yeast, that is, those 
genera found in rather high concentrations 
on the grape and which can carry out a lim­
ited alcoholic fermentation (Kloeckera, 
Hansenula, and Hanseniaspora) (Chapter 4), as 
spoilage organisms. How much influence they 
have on the alcoholic fermentation depends 
upon the winemaking conditions, use of sulfur 
dioxide, and/or starter cultures of wine yeast, 
but in any case they should become inert after 
the ethanol concentration reaches 5% or so. It 
has been reported (Fleet et al. 1988) that 
species of Kloeckera can continue alcoholic fer­
mentation to substantial concentrations of 
ethanol at low temperatures, but we have not 
been able to confirm this. Procedures for tax­
onomical identification of the yeasts discussed 
in this section are given in Chapter 4. Other wild yeasts can show up as contami­
nates in young wine, especially if good atten­
tion has not been paid to proper storage con­
ditions: S02 addition and the avoidance of 
oxygen. Species of Pichia and Candida may 
appear as white scum on the wine surface, 
having a cheese-like appearance. The pres­
ence of Candida seems to be merely a cos­
metic problem, but Pichia can bring about 
deleterious concentrations of ethyl acetate. 
The origin of either of these yeasts would 
seem to follow the scenario described above 
(Section B). Correction of these conditions 
involves first the physical removal, skimming 
off, of the solid material; addition of sulfur 
dioxide as necessary, and assuring anaerobic 
conditions in the headspace. Old remedies 
included hanging of a bouquet garni of a mix­
ture of metabisulfite and potassium bitartrate 
in the headspace of the storage tank or putting 
the same mixture of solids on a plate and 
floating it on the wine! The humidity of the 
headspace acting on the bitartrate buffer al­
lows a continuous but slow escape of gaseous 
sulfur dioxide. 
Other wild yeasts which might be at low 
concentrations in new wine, but never seem to 
create a problem during storage, are species 
of Metschnikowia, Torulaspora, and Debary­
omyces. We will mention the latter two genera 
again, below. 
However, infection of stored wine can come 
from the much feared Saccharomycodes ludwigii, 
the "winemaker's nightmare" (Thomas 1993). 
This rather large, bipolar-budding yeast has 
great resistance to ethanol; it might be classi­
fied as a wine yeast (Chapter 4) except that it is 
also a strong producer of acetaldehyde, up to 
200 mglL (Lafon-Lafourcade 1983). The lat­
ter trait probably confers upon it its high 
resistance to S02' and like Zygosaccharomyces, it 
also shows high resistance to sorbate (see be­
low). Spoilage by Saccharomycodes (there is only 
one species) has also been reported in bottled 
wine, where flocculent masses settle as co­
hesive chunks. It is also said to impart a 
sliminess. As far as we know, this horror has 
never been seen either in wines or wineries 
of California. MicrolJiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 361 
4. Spoilage by Wine Yeasts 
We have defined wine yeasts as those which 
will carry out a complete fermentation of grape 
juice without producing any atypical sensory 
effects. These then include several races of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or using the preferred 
old-new taxonomy (Chapter 4), two species of 
Saccharomyces, S. cerevisiae and S. bayanus. Other 
yeast genera which can complete a vinification 
fermentation and might be expected to be 
included are Schizosaccharomyces, Zygosaccha­
romyces, and Brettanomyces I Dekkera. We have 
never encountered Schizosaccharomyces in im­
properly stabilized wine, and the other genera 
will be discussed below in the next sections. 
While we have nothing but great fondness for 
the wine yeasts, they become spoilage organ­
isms when they are found where they are not 
wanted-that is, in finished, bottled wine. As 
little as 1 giL of fermentable sugar will sup­
port the growth of enough yeast to produce a 
haze. Therefore bottled wine must either be 
fermented to complete dryness or some mea­
sures must be taken to prevent further yeast 
growth in it. The term dryness also implies the 
lack of perceptible sweetness. The chemical 
determination of dryness is done by measure­
ment of the concentration of residual reduc­
ing sugars, very conveniently done in wines at 
the end of alcoholic fermentation with the use 
ofClinitest® tablets (Ough and Amerine 1988). 
Reducing sugars include any residual fer­
mentable sugars, glucose, and fructose, and 
about 2 giL of pentoses, the latter not metab­
olized by wine yeasts. By the Clinitest,® some­
thing less than 2.25 giL of reducing sugar 
indicates dryness. More precise measurements 
can be made of the fermentable sugars them­
selves by use of enzymatic methods or by use 
of specific electrodes. Very often only glucose 
is measured, and 0 giL is taken as the mea­
sure of dryness. This is generally satisfactory, 
but the winemaker should be aware that essen­
tially all of the wine yeasts are glucophilic, 
meaning they will utilize glucose faster and in 
preference to fructose. Thus, the absence of 
glucose might still mean that the presence of 
enough fructose has been left to make the 362 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
wme unstable. Enzyme kits are also available 
which will measure both glucose and fructose. 
a. Physical Means of Microbiological 
Stabilization 
The method of choice, and widely used, for 
stabilizing mellow (non dry or slightly sweet) 
wine is the removal of all of the yeasts by 
sterile filtration, followed by sterile bottling. As 
described in the section on sterile bottling 
(Chapter 11), depth filters are often used for 
the primary filtration, since they have the ca­
pacity for removal of large amounts of particu­
late material before showing the effects of 
fouling or silting. This filtration is generally 
followed by a membrane filtration; mem­
branes having a defined pore size to give an 
absolute filtration and the special advantage of 
providing for integrity testing in place 
(Chapter 11). Membranes of 1.1-fLm porosity 
will remove wine yeast, but smaller pore-sized 
membranes are often used. The whole filter 
assembly and all of the bottling material 
downstream from the filters must be sterilized 
by treatment with hot water or steam; chemi­
cal sterilants are unsatisfactory for this opera­
tion. Methods for microbiological quality con­
trol of the product are given in the section on 
sterile bottling (Chapter 11). When properly 
performed, sterile filtration has no detectable 
sensory effect on the product. 
Heating of the wine itself can be used to kill 
the yeast. The HTST (high-temperature short­
time) procedure is satisfactory for this, but 
all of the equipment downstream from the 
heat exchanger must be sterilized, as is need­
ed for sterile filtration, anyway. Therefore, 
sterile filtration is preferred to this sort of 
pasteurization. 
Hot bottling, heating the wine during the 
bottling procedure and allowing the contents 
to cool slowly in the bottle can also be used for 
stabilization, but the generally detrimental ef­
fect on the sensory quality of the wine makes 
this procedure extremely rare in the modern 
winemaking scene. However, we were sur­
prised at the results of some of our recent work (Malletroit et al. 1991), which showed 
that this procedure can safely be used for 
stabilization of wine in small bottles (375 mL). 
With the smaller volume of wine, the exterior 
portions of the sample do not have to be 
heated so high or for so long to bring up the 
temperature of the interior, as with regular­
sized bottles (750 mL). This procedure would 
seem to be a solution to the difficulties in 
large-scale sterile bottling at high speeds for 
small bottles of semidry wine. 
b. Chemical Means for Microbiological 
Stabilization 
Two chemicals are being used to stabilize 
nondry wines: potassium sorbate (Sorbistat®) 
and dimethyl dicarbonate (Velcorin ®). 
Sorbic acid (2,4-hexadienoic acid) has a long 
history of use in the wine industry and in 
other foods. Sorbate has some sensory charac­
ter, especially when esterified with ethanol, 
although most people would have difficulty 
detecting the presence of it except under 
stringent taste panel conditions; however, 
other individuals can easily detect it and find it 
offensive. It has an advantage of being persis­
tent, that is, its fungistatic activity is not dimin­
ished with time; thus, it can be added at any 
time during wine storage before the bottling 
procedure. Besides the sensory effect, another 
disadvantage is that the chemical is a fungistat, 
not a fungicide; the yeasts are inactivated but 
not killed. This means that the microbiological 
quality control as used with sterile bottling 
(Chapter 11) cannot be used here. There is a 
synergistic effect between sorbate'sactivity and 
the inhibitory activities of sulfur dioxide and 
ethanol COugh and Ingraham 1960). Thus, in 
wine, in combination with the sulfur dioxide 
and ethanol, the effective dosage against yeast 
is about 200 mg/L. Most countries specity a 
maximum limit for use in wine (Appendix B), 
and any use in wine in Japan, and perhaps 
other countries, is illegal. The dosage of 200 
mg/L is recommended regardless of the con­
centration of yeast it is expected to control. 
That is, the use of sorbate along with sterile filtration, say, for extra assurance, still requires 
this relatively high concentration. 
Although sorbate shows little activity against 
bacteria-another disadvantage-some lactic 
acid bacteria can metabolize it to give, in wine, 
a strong off-odor. The bacteria reduce sorbic 
acid to sorbyl alcohol, which, in the presence 
of ethanol and low pH gives a rearrangement 
to 2-ethoxyhexa-3,5-diene, the latter having a 
peculiar geranium-like odor (Crowell and 
Guymon 1975). 
Dimethyl dicarbonate (DMDC) (Velcorin), 
which is toxic to yeast, especially Saccharomyces, 
has only recently been made available for sta­
bilization of semidry wine. It is unstable when 
added to wine, with a half-life of a few hours, 
depending upon the temperature. Actually this 
property can be an advantage, since the mate­
rial will be dissipated and not present in the 
bottled wine. The major end products are 
carbon dioxide and methanol, the amounts of 
either are inconsequential. The disadvantage 
is that DMDC must be added at the time of 
bottling. This involves the use of special, and 
expensive, metering equipment to allow a 
constant rate of addition of DMDC uniformly 
to the flow of the wine just before it enters the 
filler. The chemical, and the metering equip­
ment for it, are somewhat difficult to handle 
and require the use of specially trained per­
sonnel. Another current disadvantage is the 
relatively high price of the DMDC. The use 
of DMDC to control bacteria is discussed in 
Section G. 
In the next sections we will discuss two of 
the most important spoilage yeasts: Zygosaccha­
romyces and Brettanomyces. 
5. Spoilage by Zygosaccharomyces Yeast 
Zygosaccharomyces (Chapter 4), like Saccha­
romyces, also may be found in semidry bottled 
wine. Many of the species of Zygosaccharomyces 
will carry out complete fermentation of grape 
juice; strains of Z. fermentati having vigorous 
fermentation rates (Romano and Suzzi 1993). 
Strains of Z. bailii, the main spoilage species, 
are unusual in that they are fructophilic, rather Microbiological SPoilage of Wine and Its Control 363 
than glucophilic, as are most of the other 
grape juice fermenters (Peynaud and Domercq 
1955). There are several interesting character­
istics of the members of this genus with re­
spect to their malic acid utilization and their 
foaming and flocculation qualities (Romano 
and Suzzi 1993). From a genetics point of 
view, all of the members of this genus are 
special-spending most of their growth cycle 
as heterothallic haploids (Chapter 4) (Kreger­
van Rij 1984). 
Zygosaccharomyces is an important spoilage 
yeast because it is resistant to potassium sor­
bate. However, as a spoilage organism, its ori­
gin in wine is not from a primary fermenta­
tion. While this spoilage might arise in stored 
wine by the scenario we outlined above for 
other organisms (Section B), it is much more 
likely to be found in semidry bottled wine. Its 
origin is predominately from grape juice con­
centrate' which is sometimes added to wine at 
the time of bottling to provide sweetness. We 
are primarily concerned with the species Z. 
bailii; but all of the eight species of the genus 
are highly sugar tolerant and will grow, some 
species more vigorously than others, in 50% 
glucose (Kreger-van Rij 1984). The use of 
properly stored grape juice concentrate does 
not seem to bring about the problem with 
Zygosaccharomyces contamination. The problem 
arises from extended storage of concentrate at 
room temperature, rather than cellar temper­
ature, and with little attention paid to S02 
content. Although some strains of Zygosaccha­
romyces may be more sensitive to S02' as com­
pared to wine yeast and bacteria, others are 
more resistant; accordingly larger concentra­
tions of S02 should be maintained. Since the 
concentrate is going to be used as a sweet 
reserve, its dilution when added to wine over­
comes any objections to the presence of excess 
S02. Obviously the risk from storage is more 
acute when inventories of concentrate are high 
and refrigeration space is at a premium. 
Spoilage by Zygosaccharomyces is mainly a 
cosmetic problem, the odors and flavors of 
these wines are generally described as being 
wine-like; however, the yeast deposits itself as a 364 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
granular material, falling to the bottom of the 
bottle. The deposit has the appearance and 
color of beach sand. With time, the sediment 
gradually becomes more or more colored, 
reaching yellow and medium brown. Thus, in 
old bottles of wine the spoilage has been con­
fused with the precipitation of proteins, as 
might happen in a wine with a noticeable 
metaloprotein haze. 
The problem of contamination of wine at 
bottling with Zygosaccharomyces yeast is best 
solved, as it is with Saccharomyces, with the use 
of sterile filtration and bottling. What is best is 
not always done. Over the last few years the 
use of grape juice concentrate to sweeten wine 
at bottling has been more widespread in the 
large-scale production of lower-priced wines, 
where potassium sorbate (see above) has been 
used to stabilize the wine. As we have said, 
Zygosaccharomyces is resistant to sorbate. This 
has caused considerable distress for wineries 
in this category, but generally the problems 
have been solved either by paying closer atten­
tion to the storage of concentrate, or finally by 
resorting to installation of sterilizable bottling 
equipment. 
We have given taxonomic procedures for 
identification of species of Zygosaccharomyces 
(Chapter 4). Presumptive identification of wine 
spoilage species of Zygosaccharomyces can be 
made by plating the suspected organism on 
solid medium containing 1 % acetic acid (Ap­
pendix F); no species of Saccharomyces will grow 
in the presence of this concentration of acetic 
acid. This is presumptive evidence because 
some species of Hansenula, Torulaspora, Pichia, 
and Debaryomyces will also grow in the pres­
ence of 1 % acetic acid. These latter genera 
are easily distinguished from Zygosaccharomyces 
in that Hansenula grows on nitrate as a nitro­
gen source, Torulaspora does not assimilate ca­
daverine, enological species of Pichia (that is, 
P. fermentans and P. membranaefaciens) form 
pellicles, and Debaryomyces never strongly fer­
ments glucose. However, if the contamination 
is found in bottled wine sweetened with grape 
juice concentrate and stabilized with sorbate, 
it almost certainly is Z. bailii. Another rather easy identification method 
is microscopic examination of a culture grow­
ing on malt agar without acetic acid. These 
organisms are heterothallic haploids (Chapter 
4) and the cells tend to conjugate readily and 
show a characteristic dumbbell appearance 
before sporulating (Figure 4-1e). Another 
closely related species, Z. bisporus fits many of 
the same descriptions as Z. bailii, in fact, only 
these two species of the genus are acetic acid­
tolerant. Z. bisporus is somewhat smaller and 
all strains of it are sucrose negative. In spite of 
the close similarities, we have never encoun­
tered Z. bisporus, or any other species of the 
genus, as a wine spoilage organism. 
6. Spoilage by Brettanomyces Yeast 
Brettanomyces is described as the nonsexual, 
nonsporulating form of Dekkera (Chapter 4). 
The difference in taxonomy is extreme, but in 
morphology it is rather subtle. The sporula­
tion conditions, elevated temperature, and in­
creased micronutrient concentration (Hagan 
1979), seem to be more exacting than for 
other genera; and the detection of the spores 
with the light microscope is rather arduous for 
the inexperienced worker. Spore stains are 
available (Bartholomew and Mittwer 1950), but 
they do not seem to be especially useful be­
cause of the sparseness of this sporulation. 
Indeed it was only in the latest taxonomic 
treatment (Kreger-van Rij 1984) that the per­
fect sporulating form was recognized. Both 
Brettanomyces and Dekkera have been isolated 
from wine, but it is not clear yet how impor­
tant spoilage of wine by Dekkera is. However, it 
is clear that conditions of winemaking and 
wine storage would work against sporulation 
of Dekkera yeast if they were present. There is 
some evidence of discreet differences in the 
sensory characteristics of wine made by Bret­
tanomyces, as compared to Dekkera (Fugelsang 
et al. 1993), but these differences may reflect 
variations in strain rather than in genus. For 
the discussion here, we group the genera to­
gether, asking Brettanomyces to stand for both. As with other wine yeasts, both Bret­
tanomyces and Dekkera are capable of complet­
ing an alcoholic fermentation of grape juice, 
albeit very slowly. In fact, these wines, when 
tasted very fresh, have among other flavors, 
some fruity, rather pleasant notes. Indeed a 
specialty beer of Belgium, Lambic beer, hav­
ing a distinct flavor, variously described, but 
certainly differen t from regular beers, is 
brewed by this yeast (Guinard 1990), which 
adds fuel to a blustery controversy over the 
role of these yeasts as spoilers of wine (Hock 
1990). 
There is no controversy that Brettanomyces 
contamination can have an important influ­
ence on the odor and flavor of wine-that is, 
wine fermented by Saccharomyces. However, in 
wine, the odors from Brettanomyces contamina­
tion have been described as: barnyard-like, 
horsey, horse blanket, wet dog, tar, tobacco, 
creosote, leathery, pharmaceutical, and per­
haps mousey (see Section G.6 also). The in­
fected wines often have an increased volatile 
acidity). However, the controversy arises as to 
whether the odors described in Brettanomyces­
infected wines, if more than subliminal, are 
attractive or disgusting. A thoughtful discus­
sion of this point, giving no doubt on which 
side of the barnyard fence the authors of this 
text stand, is given in Chapter 16. All we can 
do here is to indicate how to prevent the 
spoilage, how to detect this spoilage if it is not 
prevented, how to identify the spoilage mi­
croorganisms involved, and the best means of 
control of the spoilage infection if it already 
has been established. 
a. Prevention of Brettanomyces 
Spoilage 
The scenario given above describing how 
spoilage microbes can arise as resident popu­
lations in a winery is based on actual experi­
ences with Brettanomyces infections (van der 
Walt and van Kerken 1958, 1961; van Zyl 1962). Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 365 
Thus, the first line of defense must be at the 
reception area during harvest, stopping the 
crushing and stemming operations often for 
thorough washing of the equipment, addition 
of S02' if not with every crushing lot at least 
from time to time; and providing clean, unob­
structed lines and hoses into the winery. Also, 
one should have a thorough knowledge of the 
microbial history of all wine coming into the 
winery and a thorough knowledge of where 
this wine is being used. In depicting the sce­
nario, it was pointed out that if conditions are 
favorable and with enough time, a viable mi­
crobe from any source is a potential focus for 
contamination-of the wine stored in that ves­
sel. Even with the best attention to the recep­
tion area at harvest time, there is eventually 
some sort of likelihood of contamination from 
unidentified sources. Thus, it is imperative that 
in the unspoiled cellar, scrupulous attention 
be paid to general cleanliness, frequent sanita­
tion of equipment, and to S02 concentrations. 
It is generally accepted that the proverbial 0.8 
mgjL molecular S02 be maintained for con­
trol of Brettanomyces, as well as many other 
spoilage organisms. Another source of alien 
organisms is the acquisition of used wooden 
barrels. We know of no sure way to sterilize 
infected barrels. In any case it is important to 
have a good idea of the true conditions and 
history of any used barrels which are brought 
into the winery. 
b. Detection of Brettanomyces Spoilage 
The most desirable form of detection of Bret­
tanomyces infection would be one which de­
tects the characteristic off-flavors in the incipi­
ent stages. Two volatile phenols found in some 
wines may be responsible for the phenolic, 
sweaty, horsey, or stable off-odors: 4-ethyl phe­
nol and 4-ethyl guaiacol. These can come from 
the enzymatic decarboxylation and reduction 
of hydroxycinnamic acids (p-coumaric acid and 
ferulic acid)-of the musts or possibly ex-
1 The pungent aroma notes coming from old cultures of Brettanomyces on solid medium, used in taxonomic diagnosis 
of the genera (Chapter 4), are reminiscent of butyric acid-and other medium-chain-length organic acids. 366 Micromological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
tracted from new wood (Figure 9-3) (Heresztyn 
1986a; Chatonnet et al. 1992). The corre­
sponding enzymes, cinnamate decarboxylase 
and vinyl-phenol reductase are found in Sac­
charomyces and in Brettanomyces and Dekkera; 
however the enzymes in Saccharomyces, which 
seem to be highly dependent upon yeast strain, 
are said to be inhibited by tannins (Chatonnet 
et al. 1989; 1993). It is hoped that analytical 
tools can be developed which would detect 
these compounds as an early warning system 
before the infection is detectable by other 
means. 
In the meantime, the only sure method for 
detection is microbiological, the plating of the 
suspected samples on a selection medium, 
upon which only colonies of Brettanomyces will 
appear (Chapter 4). While the conditions of 
identification can be made definite (see below) 
this procedure is labor-intensive. In the un­
blemished winery, one would expect such plat­
ing procedures to give, in effect, a cell count 
of 0 cellsjmL. More realistically, there will be 
some primary presence of the organisms, and 
a baseline, say 1 to lO cellsjmL, can be deter­
mined. The proper cellar procedures outlined 
above should keep it at or below that basal 
concentration. Monitoring showing increased 
concentrations of 100 to lOOO cellsjmL is 
cause for alarm. However, more information is 
needed concerning the relationship between 
the concentration of these yeasts and the for­
mation of the odd flavors and odors since we 
have prepared wines with concentrations of 
much greater than lOOO cells of viable Bret-
OH tanomyces per mL with no adverse sensory ef­
fects. This discrepancy may be due to strain 
variation or to substrate materials, which are 
discussed further below under methods oj 
control. 
c. Identification of Brettanomyces 
Spoilage 
Presumptive identification of Brettanomyces can 
be obtained from winery samples most easily 
utilizing their resistance to cycloheximide. 
Plating on malt or wort plates prepared with 
10 mgjL of this fungicide (Appendix F) is 
often used-noting that about one-half of the 
activity of this inhibitor is destroyed during the 
autoclaving process and double the concentra­
tion is empirically used. While some other 
organisms are also resistant to this concentra­
tion of cycloheximide, they are unlikely to be 
found in wine. More definitive identification 
comes with the use of 100 mgjL cyclohex­
imide in the medium, but the disadvantage of 
use of this medium is that the growth of the 
Brettanomyces colonies takes from 10 to 14 days. 
It should be noted that cycloheximide has 
been indicated as a reproductive toxin in ani­
mals (Alleva et al. 1979); its use and its disposal 
need to be carefully managed. Differential 
platings, using media without cycloheximide, 
are often used to determine whether other 
microorganisms might also be present. Dif­
ferential media prepared for other laboratory 
uses are commercially available, for example, 
Wallerstein nutrient medium and Wallerstein 
differential medium. However, these are not 
qH C02 ~~ ___ .l~ 
cinnamate 
decarboxylase OH q" OH 
• q" vinyl phenol 
Fig. 9-3. Formation of vinyl and ethyl 
phenols of decarboxylation of hydroxy 
cinnamic acids. CH 
II 
CH 
I 
COOH 
H P -coumaric 
OH caffeic 
OMe ferulic CH reductase C~ II (redox I 
CH2 coenzyme) CH3 satisfactory as differential media for detection 
of Brettanomyces, since the latter contains only 
3 mgjL cycloheximide. Furthermore, Bret­
tanomyces seems to be more nutritionally fastid­
ious than other wine-related microorganisms; 
the medium for them should be supple­
mented with thiamine and other micronutri­
ents, not found in Wallerstein nutrient 
medium. We generally add 2 gjL of tryptone 
powder to the malt medium (Appendix F). 
Unambiguous identification of Bret­
tanomyces and Dekkera, comes from use of the 
taxonomic key given in Charter 4. This 
methodology is especially important in the 
testing of nonwine material, where the pre­
sumptive methods cannot be employed. Some 
nonwine species of Saccharomyces are resistant 
to 1000 mgjL cycloheximide (Chapter 4). 
d. Control of Brettanomyces Spoilage 
Control of Brettanomyces in stored wine starts 
with the prevention schemes mentioned above, 
but includes rough filtrations to remove the 
bulk of the offending organism. Mter being 
filtered, the wine should be returned to sani­
tized cooperage, and treated with S02' This 
can well be accomplished with stainless steel 
tanks, but it is next to impossible with barrels, 
except, of course, brand new ones. In an al­
ready infected cellar, it is not realistic to use 
full sterilization tactics, but rather to attempt 
to keep the contamination under control. 
There is some evidence that new barrels are 
more susceptible to growth of Brettanomyces 
yeast, and possibly malolactic bacteria, than 
are old barrels (Larue et al. 1991). This brings 
up the point raised above as to what the sub­
strate conditions are which encourage Bret­
tanomyces growth, or at least the formation of 
the off-flavors. On the one hand, one can 
imagine that some of the phenolic materials 
being extracted from new wood might be sub­
strates for oxidation, or reduction, reactions 
by Brettanomyces to give some creosote, tar, or 
other odoriferous compounds (Amon et al. 
1987). We say oxidation or reduction, since 
the Brettanomyces fermentation is rather 
unique. They exhibit a kind of negative Pas-Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 367 
teur effect called Custer's effect, where oxy­
gen stimulates fermentation (Wijsman et al. 
1984; Gaunt et al. 1988; van Urk et al. 1990) 
rather than inhibiting it (Chapter 4) (Lagunas 
et al. 1982). The end pathway of glucose fer­
mentation to ethanol in Brettanomyces is unex­
pected. Acetaldehyde coming from pyruvate is 
oxidized, at the expense of NAD +, to acetic 
acid-rather than being reduced to ethanol 
with simultaneous reoxidation of NADH (Fig­
ure 9-4). The oxidation of the aldehyde may 
not be substrate specific, and it is this reaction 
that is probably the source of the butyric acid, 
and other medium-chain organic acids, no­
ticed in the spoiled wines-and in the diag­
nostic plates-as well as the increased volatile 
acidity, also often associated with this spoilage 
(see above). The oxidation of aldehydes to 
organic acids as end products also means that 
the energy economy of the cell is even more 
dependent on the reoxidation of coenzymes 
(NAD+) than is the common alcoholic fer­
mentation as found in Saccharomyces. Thus, 
control of the redox potential, and air contact 
via headspace, of wines infected with Bret­
tanomyces is critical. This would explain the 
opinion of some enologists who believe sam­
pling of wine for detection of this yeast ought 
to be done near the top the vessel, although 
others indicate the yeast is more likely to be 
found near the bottom. On the one hand, one 
might speculate that oxidation of other alde­
hydes, extracted from new wood, might also 
be a source of flavorful end products. On the 
CH3CHO 
acetaldehyde 
NADH CH3COOH 
acetic acid 
Fig. 9-4. End products of glycolysis by Brettanomyces show­
ing the Custer's effect. 368 Microlliological spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
other hand, cellulose and hemicellulose frag­
ments are also leached of wood of new barrels 
(Humphries et al. 1992). Many species of these 
yeast can assimilate cellobiose, an a-linked 
disaccharide of glucose, a fragment of cellu­
lose. Table 9-1 shows the relationship of the 
species of Brettanomyces and Dekkera having 
capabilities of assimilating cellobiose with their 
habitats, the origins of the type species studied 
(Kreger-van Rij 1984). Only small concentra­
tions of cellulose fragments would need to be 
leeched out of the wood. Very low concentra­
tions of substrate materials are needed to pro­
duce a haze by the growth of yeast up to 105 
cellslmL, which is more than the concentra­
tion of cells often associated with Brettanomyces 
infections. Of course, no strains of Saccha­
romyces can utilize cellulose or its fragments. 
The metabolism of glucose itself may be an 
overriding component in the Brettanomyces 
spoilage puzzle. Some winemakers believe they 
have found a relationship between residual 
glucose in the wine, meaning 1 to 2 giL, and 
the chance oflater spoilage. Their advice would 
be to bottle any suspicious wine only if it is 
completely free of residual glucose. 
For control of Brettanomyces-infected wine at 
time of bottling, the only procedure to assure protection against later spoilage is to remove 
these yeasts by sterile filtration and sterile bot­
tling. For very fine wines, marketing fashions 
and labeling practices may prohibit the use of 
filtration. In this situation, the only guides as 
to the feasibility of delivery of uncontaminated 
product are microbial analyses to give the cur­
rent titer of the yeast and the experience of 
the producer. If chances of bottle spoilage are 
low enough, say less than in 1 % of the bottles. 
the winemaker may be content to forego the 
finishing operations, depending upon the ex­
pectations of the clientele. 
More information is needed on the protec­
tive effect by use of sorbate or DMDC, but 
wine producers wishing to avoid finishing op­
erations would also probably balk at the use of 
chemical stabilizing agents. 
The problem of cellared wines in which the 
Brettanomyces spoilage is already evident is seri­
ous. The wine itself can be stabilized from 
further deterioration by the tactics outlined 
above. Sometimes long-term storage will bring 
about a lessening of the off-flavors. Alter­
nately, the wine might be blended to dilute 
offending materials to a subthreshold level; 
perhaps giving a positive increase in complex­
ity. The blended wine should be monitored to 
Table 9-1. The relationship between the species of Brettanomyces and Dekkera and their capacities for assimilating 
cellobiose. Also given are the origins of the species studied. 
Species 
Brettanomyces 
abstinens 
anomalus 
bruxellensis 
claussenii 
custersianus 
custersii 
intermedius 
lambieus 
naardensis 
Dekkera 
bruxellensis 
intermedia Assimilates cellobiose 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 
SOUTce: Selected from Kreger-van Rij (1984). Origin of strains studied 
ginger ale 
bottled stout beer, cider, beer 
Lambie beer, porter beer 
beer, cider, sherry vat 
equipment in sorghum beer breweries 
equipment in sorghum beer breweries 
grape must; wines from Arbois, 
Macon, Gironde, Medoc, and 
South Africa; equipment in sorghum 
beer breweries 
Lambie beer 
soft drink, carbonated water 
stout beer 
beer, wine, winery equipment, tea beer fungus assure that the contamination does not recom­
mence. At the time of bottling of the blend, it 
is imperative to use sterilizing procedures 
(Chapter 11). Stainless steel storage tanks used 
to hold this wine can be sanitized and reused; 
however, any wooden cooperage should be 
discarded. 
G. SPOILAGE BY LACTIC ACID 
BACTERIA 
The wine lactic acid bacteria are defined as 
those producing lactic acid from fermentation 
of glucose (Chapter 6). Leuconostoc, Lactobacil­
lus, and Pediococcus are the wine genera in­
volved. Descriptions and identification proce­
dures for these genera, and their species, have 
been given in the chapter on malolactic fer­
mentation (Chapter 6); although not all of the 
members of these genera are actually convert­
ers of malic acid to lactic acid. They are all 
catalase negative, but they will grow in the 
presence of oxygen. Thus we are grouping 
them here together, actually as mi­
croaerophilic bacteria, distinguishing them 
from the obligate-aerobic, catalase-positive 
acetic acid bacteria and bacilli, discussed 
below. 
As we have seen, the malolactic fermenta­
tion and conversion are respected and fre­
quently desired operations in commercial wine 
production. However, there are at least two 
situations where the fermentation must be 
considered undesirable, that is, spoilage: when 
it occurs where it is not wanted or needed, 
and where the dominant strain carrying out 
the fermentation produces enough off-odors 
or flavor modification to ruin the product. 
1. Misplaced Malolactic Fermentations 
With the notable exception of the traditional 
Vinhos Verdes wines of northern Portugal, a 
malolactic fermentation occurring in wine af­
ter it is bottled is a spoilage analogous to that 
of growth of Saccharomyces in semidry bottled Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 369 
wine (Chapter 6). The prevention is similar. If 
the wine has not undergone malolactic fer­
mentation, and is susceptible to it, which is 
largely a question of its pH, then it must be 
treated to prevent further growth. Under Cali­
fornia winemaking conditions, with proper ad­
ditions of S02' a pH of less than 3.3 is empiri­
cally taken as safe; but with pHs higher than 
that, one of the following physical or chemical 
treatments ought to be made. As with the 
Saccharomyces spoilage, sterile filtration and 
sterile bottling are the methods of choice 
(Chapter 11). Since the bacteria are smaller 
than yeast, the membrane pore size accord­
ingly needs to be smaller: 0.45-JLm pore size is 
recommended. Membranes are available at 
even tighter porosity, the pharmaceutical in­
dustry routinely uses membranes of 0.22-JLm 
pore size. However, the use of the tighter 
membranes, with the associated decreased flow 
rate, has been shown to be unnecessary for use 
in wine. Other physical methods employed for 
removal or inactivation of Saccharomyces, with 
their liabilities, may also be used (see above). 
Chemical methods for stabilization of wine 
against malolactic fermentation are also avail­
able, but the use of potassium sorbate (Section 
F.4.b) is not one of them, since the bacteria 
are resistant to this additive at the allowed 
concentrations, 200 mg/L, even in the pres­
ence of ethanol and S02 at wine pH. Labora­
tory results indicate that DMDC can be used 
to control malolactic bacteria, where the 
ethanol and the low pH together with added 
S02 are toxic to the bacteria (Ough et al. 
1988). We are not aware of its use in practice 
to control bacteria. However, fumaric acid ad­
dition can be used for stabilization. Fumaric 
acid is completely safe, and if used properly, 
very effective. Proper conditions are defined 
as wines with pH less than 4, low concentra­
tions of bacteria, and reasonable amounts of 
S02. All of these conditions can be obtained 
under good cellar practices, and when used in 
this way the lactic acid bacteria are not only 
inhibited but killed. Two disadvantages are 
that the addition of fumaric acid is not ap-370 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
proved in most winemaking regions outside of 
the United States, and that the acid is rather 
insoluble in wine. The latter obstacle can be 
overcome by intermediate stirring of the wine 
after the addition and again for a few succes­
sive days, which, however, is impractical with 
very large wine lots. 
Unplanned and unwanted malolactic fer­
mentations may also occur in the wines during 
cellar storage; for example, in wines of rather 
low acidity awaiting bottling. If the fermenta­
tion comes about by resident malolactic organ­
isms and no off-flavors are found, the wine­
maker is advised to wait a few days to assure 
the cessation of bacterial growth before per­
forming the finishing operations: addition of 
S02 with some aeration and rough filtration 
(Chapter 6). These operations should also 
probably include addition of acid. As men­
tioned before (Chapter 6), the acidulating 
agent of choice in these cases is tartaric acid, 
malic acid undoubtedly reinitiates microbial 
activity. 
2. Malolactic Fermentation by 
Undesirable Bacteria 
In Chapter 6 it was pointed out that some 
strains of malolactic bacteria may produce 
off-flavors. This might simply be the formation 
of larger amounts of the fermentation product 
diacetyl than desired. For example, diacetyl in 
red wine at less than 5 mgjL is considered to 
add complexity, but greater than that, to con­
stitute spoilage (Kunkee et al. 1965). With white 
wines, the spoilage threshold is lower. Thus, 
various malolactic strains may be spoilage or­
ganisms in some cases, but not in others. In 
addition, fermentation conditions, such as re­
dox potential and presence of citric acid are 
also important in the production of diacetyl 
(Chapter 6). Other undesirable strain-specific 
end products may also be formed. Some of 
these end products are known, such as hydro­
gen sulfide, but others are not. Others may be 
similar to those coming from Brettanomyces in­
fections (Section F.6.b). The best solution to the problem of unde­
sirable malolactic bacteria is prevention, and 
the tactics for that are the same as used for 
prevention of Brettanomyces; these should be 
reviewed (Section F.6.b). If the infection has 
already occurred, the solutions for salvaging 
the wine are the same as with Brettanomyces 
spoilage. However, the problem with preven­
tion of the growth of the undesired bacteria 
may have a special solution in the case of 
malolactic bacteria. Large inoculations of ex­
panded cultures (Chapter 6) of commercially 
available malolactic bacteria ought to displace 
any resident populations in the equipment or 
in cooperage, especially after they have been 
sanitized. 
3. Ropy Wines 
Spoilage indicated by a marked, and some­
times disgusting, increase in viscosity in wine, 
often giving a slimy appearance like that of 
raw egg white, has been given the descriptiw 
name of ropiness. The awareness of the micro­
bial nature seems to go back to the time of 
Pasteur, when the malady of les vins jilants was 
recognized. Ropiness has long been supposed 
to come from dextrans, formed by leuconos­
tocs-perhaps from the sucrose in amelio­
rated wines. However, the first studies to ef­
fectively demonstrate the microbiological ori­
gin of this spoilage were by Luthi (1957), who 
reported that the contamination arose from a 
mixed culture, or rather a sequential infec­
tion, of Streptococcus mucilaginous and Acetobac­
ter rancens. It is not clear what the current 
equivalent names for the organisms are, but 
he gives a convincing, and dramatic, photo­
graph of the effects of this contamination. He 
is shown drawing out, with the aid of a glass 
rod, a repulsive long string of ropy wine, for 
some 5 cm at nearly right angles to the wine 
sample. The photo shows some sag in the 
rope, but it remains intact .. These kinds of 
results were the bases of Luthi's contention 
that vinification fermentations, good and bad, 
were a succession of microbial onslaughts 
(Luthi 1957). We have not seen ropiness in American 
wines, but the infection is apparently still a 
problem elsewhere. It is not surprising to think 
that species of Acetobacter might be involved 
with this spoilage. A. xylinum, an old species 
name but now again accepted (Section H.3), is 
described as producing a "thick, leathery, 
zoogloeal, and cellulosic" membrane from 
vinegar (Buchanan and Gibbons 1974), and is 
a common contaminant in vinegar production 
(Rose 1961). We have seen this sort of product 
formed on the top of a beaker of vinegar, and 
which could be lifted out of the beaker intact. 
When dried the material had many of the 
properties of a small piece of paper. 
However, the most recent studies of ropi­
ness ascribe the infections not to acetobacter, 
but to pediococci (Lonvaud-Funel 1986; Lon­
vaud-Funel et al. 1990), and thus we have 
included the discussion in this section. 
Llauberes used the earlier finding as the 
groundwork for her studies on troublesome 
polysaccharides produced by pediococci in 
wine (Llauberes 1988; Canal-Llauberes et al. 
1989), which are difficult to remove with cur­
rent fining and filtration procedures (Chapters 
7 and 8). 
It may well be that ropiness is caused by a 
mixture or a succession of microorganisms. 
Saccharomyces yeast have also been shown 
to produce exocellular polysaccharides 
(Llauberes et al. 1987). In apple wine, the 
origins of slime have been ascribed to a het­
erofermentative lactobacilli, to two different 
leuconostocs, and to two pediococci (Beech 
and Carr 1977). The substrates for these fer­
mentations included the various hexoses of 
apple juice, and also the pentoses. The higher 
pH of cider would allow the growth of other 
species of leuconostocs, including dextran for­
mers, and corresponding forms of other wine 
bacteria. Furthermore, Beech and Carr (1977) 
pointed out that when the bacteria were grown 
in the presence of weakly or nonfermenting 
yeasts, for example, Candida krusei, slime pro­
duction was increased. Slime formation in beer 
has been attributed to Pediococcus damnosus. Microiliological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 371 
4. Ferocious Lactobacillus Fermentations 
In the last several years, there have been re­
ports of lactic acid bacterial infections occur­
ring early in the alcoholic fermentation, so 
swift and so abundant that their growth is 
evident within a few days after the grapes are 
crushed. Part of the evidence is the rapid 
formation of high concentrations of acetic 
acid, so high as to impede the continued 
growth and fermentation by Saccharomyces. Ex­
amination of the stuck wines reveals that the 
bacteria in abundance are not acetic acid bac­
teria, as expected, but lactobacilli. Although 
lactic acid bacteria certainly can produce acetic 
acid, it was unexpected that they could pro­
duce so much. In the field, these wild lacto­
bacilli have been named ferocious lactobacilli! 
The infection seems to be from red grapes, 
usually Pinot noir, and to be vineyard-specific. 
In many of these cases the winemakers had 
been using controversial practices such as no 
addition of S02 at the time of crushing and 
very often the storage of the fresh must for 
several days before yeast addition. Mter exam­
ination of many of these wines, it was realized 
that the infection had not been found in musts 
with initial pHs of less than 3.5. Even though 
the infection seems to be vineyard-specific, we 
were never able to isolate any lactic acid bacte­
ria from the surfaces of the suspected grapes, 
and only found the infection in juice from the 
crusher where no S02 had been used. This 
spoilage has apparently been eliminated in the 
problem wineries by use of the recommended 
procedure, moderate amounts of S02' and 
immediate addition of yeast starter culture, 
especially in red grapes with an initial pH of 
greater than 3.5. This seems to be an illustra­
tion of new problems sporadically introduced 
when tried-and-true practices, such as S02 ad­
ditions, are changed in response to politically 
correct views. 
5. Spoilage of Fortified Wines by 
Lactobacillus 
Some species of lactobacilli are exceedingly 
ethanol-tolerant, and can survive and grow in 372 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
dessert/appetizer wines fortified to contain 
20% (vol/vol) ethanol. The current name for 
the most famous of these species is Lactobacil­
lus fructivorans (Holt 1986); but older wine­
makers may remember, with apprehension, 
the species name L. trichodes (Fornachon et al. 
1949). Trichodes means hair-like, and its mi­
croscopic appearance (Figure 6-8) is remark­
ably like a wad of hair. Its macroscopic ap­
pearance also resembles a wad of hair, or 
cotton, as if a wad were deliberately placed in 
the wine bottle. Goswell and Kunkee (1977) 
and Amerine et al. (1980) relate histories of 
the effects of these bacteria and the devasta­
tion they caused even in fortified wines in 
many wine regions of the world, including 
South Africa, Australia, and the San Joaquin 
Valley in California. Devastation is not too 
strong a word since in at least one case, the 
winery suffering the infection was financially 
ruined; and perhaps needlessly, since the or­
ganism turns out not to be especially resistant 
to S02. Judicious use of this antiseptic eventu­
ally has made this problem a thing of the past 
-to those who appreciate the past. There are 
several remarkable characteristics of these 
bacteria-and probably of its close relative, L. 
hilgardii, which was first isolated from a Cali­
fornia wine (Holt 1986). One interesting char­
acteristic is, that in spite of its high tolerance 
to ethanol, it is relatively sensitive to S02. 
Another is that some strains of L. fructivorans 
have a requirement for ethanol (Radler and 
Hartel 1984). While these infections have pri­
marily been noticed in fortified wines, table 
wines are also susceptible. Perhaps because of 
the special sensitivity of the table wines to 
bacterial infections, they are given more dili­
gent cellar attention, as compared to those 
with greater alcohol content, and have been 
largely spared. 
6. Mousey Wines 
The odor of mousey wines is reminiscent of 
the smell of mouse nests or mouse urine; but 
more genteelly compared with the smell of 
acetamide, or some impurity usually associated with the latter. However, it is now established 
that this spoilage arises rather from substituted 
piperidines/pyridines, coming as oxidation 
products of lysine (see below). The oxidation 
involvement seems to explain an old-time pro­
cedure of rubbing a small volume of a subject 
wine between the hands to accentuate any of 
the spoilage character, which action in this 
case helps to induce formation of aroma com­
pounds as well as to volatilize them. There 
seems to be good agreement amongst enolo­
gists worldwide as to the sensory character of 
the spoilage; but there is no good agreement 
as to what brings it about, except that it cer­
tainly must be microbiological. Koch's postu­
lates have been fulfilled in that three species 
of Brettanomyces and two of Lactobacillus have 
been isolated from mousey wines, and reinfec­
tion of a model medium with any of them 
brought about the mousey taint and the for­
mation of the piperidines (Heresztyn 1986b). 
Furthermore, the offensive compounds were 
not formed by Brettanomyces yeast except when 
lysine was available; nor by the lactobacilli 
unless ethanol, or propanol, was present. 
However, mousiness is not one of the usual or 
important descriptors applied to Brettanomyces 
spoilage (Section F.6); nevertheless, we have 
smelled wines which were assuredly infected 
with at least Brettanomyces, and which were just 
as assuredly mousey. Lactobacilli, and other 
lactic acid bacteria, and acetic acid bacteria, as 
well, have strong anecdotal support as being 
the causative microbial agents. 
The first research showing the involvement 
of substituted piperidines came from work with 
English cider, which seems to be especially 
susceptible to mousey spoilage (Beech 
1993)-probably because of it higher pH and 
lower ethanol concentration, as compared to 
grape wine, and perhaps because it has a more 
subtle baseline aroma. The discovery of the 
acetamide impurity (2,4,6-trimethyl-1,3,5-tri­
azine) (Figure 9-5) led Tucknott to suggest that 
an alkyl-substituted a'piperidine (that is, 2-
ethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyridine) (Figure 9-5) 
might be the smelly component of mousy cider 
(Tucknott and Williams 1973). Later, this com-Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 373 
2,4,6-trimethyl-
1,3,5-triazine 2-ethyl-3,4,5,6-
tetrahydropyridine 2-acetyl-3,4,5,6-
tetrahydropyridine 
Fig. 9-5. Organic compounds having been implicated in aromatic character of mousey wine. 
pound was reported in mousey wine (Craig 
and Heresztyn 1984), and then corrected to be 
either of the two carbonyl analogues (2-acetyl-
3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyridine or the 1,4,5,6 iso­
mer) (Figure 9-5) (Heresztyn 1986b). These 
components have not been identified in nor­
mal, sound wines (Rapp 1988). 
The discovery of the role of oxygen led to 
important changes in cider production in Eng­
land to prevent oxidation during fermentation 
and filtration, especially just prior to the bot­
tling operations. 
7. Other Spoilages by Lactic Acid Bacteria 
Mannitol spoilage or mannite disease, depicted 
by Pasteur (1866), is caused by certain strains 
of heterolactic bacteria. These bacteria, at least 
under particular conditions, are capable of 
bringing about sliminess and complex flavor 
changes to wine; the latter has been described 
as a vinegary-estery taste with a slight sweetness 
(Sponholz 1994). These flavors are apparently 
due to formation of mannitol, propanol, bu­
tanol, and acetic acid, and perhaps diacetyl. In 
Chapter 6, one of the procedures given for the 
identification of lactic acid bacteria was the 
capacity of the heterolactic bacteria to reduce 
fructose to mannitol. 
Acrolein spoilage in wine is seen as an 
unacceptable increase in bitterness. Acrolein 
(CH 2 = CH-CHO) itself is not bitter but seems 
to react with various phenolic groups of an­
thocyanin to produce bitterness (Sponholz 
1994); the spoilage problem is usually associ­
ated with red wines with high phenolic con-tent (Dittrich 1987). This spoilage, described 
by Pasteur (1866) and called the amertume dis­
ease at that time, arises from dehydration of 
glycerol by some lactic acid bacteria, although 
the dehydratase enzyme has been demon­
strated in only a few of them (Sponhoiz 1994). 
Further histories and decriptions of ropi­
ness, mousiness, and the other lactic acid bac­
terial spoilages, including those which degrade 
tartaric acid, can be found in Amerine, et al. 
(1980) and Dittrich (1987). All of these 
spoilages are prevented by diligent sanitation 
regimes and by judicious use of S02; they are 
essentially unknown in modern-day wines of 
California. 
H. SPOILAGE BY ACETIC ACID 
BACTERIA 
As a class, acetic acid bacteria are obligate 
aerobes, mostly catalase positive, producing 
acetic acid from glucose. The wine-related 
acetic acid bacteria generally also produce 
acetic acid from ethanol and are loosely cate­
gorized as vinegar bacteria (Asai 1968; Drys­
dale and Fleet 1988). Taxonomic identifica­
tion of these bacteria is given at the end of this 
section. 
1. Kinds of Wine-Related Acetic Acid 
Bacteria 
The bacteria discussed in this section are those 
accepted and described in Bergey's Manual of 
Systematic Bacteriology (Holt 1984) and in ac-374 Microbiological Spoilage oj Wine and Its Control 
cord with the ninth edition of Bergey's Manual 
of Determinative Bacteriology (Holt et al. 1993). 
Some species of acetic acid bacteria are not 
tolerant to high (wine) concentrations of 
ethanol. The latter organisms, such as Glu­
conobacter, Frateuria, and Acetobacter hansenii, 
might be found in grape must before the 
buildup of ethanol or found associated with 
winery equipment (Drysdale and Fleet 1988). 
(Actually, Frateuria has only been found in 
fruit juices other than grape juice, but it is 
included here for completeness.) However, 
with extremely moldy, bunch-rotted grapes, or 
ill-treated mechanically harvested grapes, 
showing premature alcoholic fermentations 
(Section F.l), the complement of acetic acid 
bacteria may more closely resemble that found 
in wine. In wine, the most important species is 
Acetobacter aceti, which is highly ethanol­
tolerant, and in fact is the species of choice for 
use in commercial vinegar production (Ebner 
1982). This organism is easily controlled (see 
below) by maintenance of anaerobic condi­
tions and reasonable amounts of S02 (0.8 
mg/L molecular S02)' In recent years an­
other species of acetobacter, A. pasteurianus, 
has been found as a spoilage organism in 
several wineries. These occurrences may come 
from the current popular tendency to produce 
and store wines with lowered ethanol content 
and maintained with lowered concentrations 
of S02' More research needs to be done on 
the relative sensitivities of the strains of these 
two species to S02' 
2. Prevention and Control of Acetic Acid 
Bacterial Spoilage 
Acetic acid bacteria are ubiquitous and A. 
aceti is undoubtedly found in the indigenous 
population of all cellars. Naturally, winemak­
ers will avoid the acceptance of moldy grapes, 
but it is doubtful whether the acceptance or 
not would have much effect on the resident 
microflora of the cellar. The importance of 
keeping these bacteria in control cannot be 
overemphasized. On the one hand, the 
methodology is simple: frequent topping of barrels or tight bunging, with the barrels rolled 
on their sides; use of inert gases for headspaces 
in tanks; and frequent monitoring of S02 con­
centrations. On the other hand, during the 
hectic time of harvest, and during heavy bot­
ding schedules, these labor-intensive regimes 
are easily scrimped. Wines badly spoiled bv 
acetic acid bacteria are difficult to correct, and 
are usually diverted to vinegar. Refermenta­
tion is not a solution since Saccharomyces can­
not utilize acetic acid. Blending is only a lim­
ited solution. A recent procedure involving 
reverse osmosis and ion exchange to remove 
acetic acid before returning the permutate 
and its flavors back to the wine can be useful, 
but avoidance of production of acetic acid is 
still preferable. This procedure is ineffective 
in removing ethyl acetate. 
In this regard, it should be pointed out that 
acetic acid is not the only product of acetobac­
ter metabolism; ethyl acetate is also produced. 
Ethyl acetate has a much lower sensory thresh­
old. Acetic acid is usually the compound which 
is measured, mainly because of the ease of it~ 
analysis, especially compared to the determi­
nation of ethyl acetate. Generally one expects 
the concentration of acetic acid to reflect the 
amounts of ethyl acetate present, again owing 
to the chemical equilibration, and wines 
smelling strongly of vinegar would also show a 
high concentration of acetic acid. But that is 
not always the case. For example, in the wines 
spoiled by the ferocious lactobacilli (Section 
G.4), the acetic acid concentrations were ex­
ceedingly high, but the wines had little smell 
of ethyl acetate. 
3. Taxonomy of the Wine-Acetic Acid 
Bacteria 
The acetic acid bacteria of concern are 
Frateuria aurantius, Gluconobacter oxydans, and 
the four species of acetobacter: A. aceti, A. 
hansenii, A. liquefaciens, and A. pasteurianus. 
Other species of the first two genera are men­
tioned at the end of this section. Preliminary 
identification of the wine-related acetic acid 
bacteria as a class can often be made with the light microscope by the experienced observer 
(Figure 9-6). "Involution forms are frequent ... 
and may be spherical, elongated, swollen, 
club-shaped, curved, or filamentous" (Holt et 
al. 1993), whereas the other wine-related bac­
teria, especially the lactic acid bacteria, are far 
more regular in shape-and generally much 
smaller. A more objective identification begins 
with a positive result from the catalase test 
(Appendix G). Some strains of A. pasteurianus 
are catalase negative, therefore all suspected 
aerobes should be examined in the tests given 
below. For species identification of the acetic 
acid bacteria, several kinds of solid media are 
employed: CaC0 3-Ethanol, Glucose-Yeast ex­
tract-Calcium carbonate (GYC), Frateur and 
Modified Carr (Appendix F). All of the acetic 
acid bacteria should grow on at least one of Microbiological Spailage of Wine and Its Control 375 
these (Holt 1984). These media have various 
concentrations of yeast extract, with either 
glucose or ethanol as carbon sources and 
CaC0 3• The latter is solubilized by the acetic 
acid formed from glucose or ethanol by these 
bacteria. This is evidenced by a dramatic clear­
ing of the solid white background surrounding 
the bacterial growth. Modified Carr medium is 
generally not used and may only be needed 
for identification of some strains of A. pas­
teurianus. 
Table 9-2 gives a dichotomous key for the 
determination of the species of wine-related 
acetic acid bacteria. The prerequisite for use 
of this key is that the organism shows obvious 
growth and/or obvious clearing on at least 
one of the four media listed above. Frateuria, 
included for completeness, can be distin-
Table 9-2. A dichotomous taxonomic key for determination of the wine species of acetic acid bacteria * . 
(Media formulae given in Appendix F) 
1. Obvious growth on CaC0 3-Ethanol, Frateur, Yes: go to 2 
GYC, or Modified Carr media? No: not acetic acid bacteria 
2. Obvious clearing on CaC0 3-Ethanol medium? Yes: go to 4 
3. Ketogenesis from glycerol medium, giving a 
positive "Clinitest" assay for reducing 
sugars? (see text) 
4. Forms water-soluble brown pigment on 
GYC medium (pigment penetrates solid 
medium)? 
5. Ketogenesis from glycerol medium, giving a 
positive "Clinitest" assay for reducing 
sugars? (see text) 
6. Clearing and reclouding (irisation) of Frateur 
or CaC0 3-Ethanol medium 
(that is, growth on acetate)? 
* Assumes strains of Frateuria are not present (see text). No: Acetobactcr hansenii or A. pasteurianus: 
Yes: 
No: 
Yes: 
No: 
Yes: 
No: 
Yes: 
No: go to 3 
A. hansenii * * 
A . pasteurianus 
A. liquefaciens 
go to 5 
go to 6 
A. pasteurianus 
A. aceti 
Gluconobactcr oxydans 
* * Also possibly A. xylinum [not accepted in Bergey's Systematics, (Holt 1984)], but unlike A. hansenii, producing a very 
characteristic surface membrane (see text). 
Acetic acid bacteria species for use as positive and negative controls in the above tests 
Test 
Brown pigment 
Ketogenesis 
Clears CaC0 3-Ethanol 
Reclouds Frateur Positive Negative 
A. lique/aciens A. aceti 
A. aceti 
A. aceli 
A. aceti A . pasteurianus 
A. hansenii 
Gluconobacter oxydans 
Source: Selected from Asai (1968), Holt (1984), and Holt et al. (1993). 376 Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
• 
• • 
• 
Fig. 9-6. Acetobacter aceti. 
guished from all of the rest of these bacteria, 
and eliminated from further consideration by 
their ability to grow on 30% D-glucose; but 
more easily by their formation of yellow 
colonies on solid mannitol medium (MYP; Ap­
pendix F) used for storage of the acetic acid 
bacteria. In the next step in the key (Table 
9-2), organisms which do not show obvious 
growth on CaC0 3-ethanol medium are distin­
guished as A. hansenii or as a strain of A . 
pasteurianus. In spite of no obvious growth on 
CaC0 3-ethanol medium, some strains of A. 
hansenii may still produce enough acetic acid 
to show some faint clearing. Differentiation of 
a strain of A. pasteurianus from A. hansenii as 
this stage of the key is made by testing for 
oxidation, ketogenesis, of glycerol in liquid 
medium. This can be detected by use of Clin­
itest tablets (Ough and Amerine 1988), when, 
after good growth on glycerol broth (Appen-dix F) is evidenced, a positive test (A. hanseniil 
of the liquid is a faint olive drab color, as 
compared to the bright blue of a negative test 
(A. pasteurianus). In the next step in the key, 
organisms forming water-soluble brown pig­
ment on GYC are distinguished as A. liquefa­
ciens. With A. liquefaciens, the brown pigment 
is not merely associated with colonial growth, 
but pervades the solid medium, eventually to 
the edges (Figure 9-7). Other strains of A. 
pasteurianus, not already designated, are distin­
guished from the remaining species of the key 
by showing, again, no ketogenesis of glycerol 
(a negative Clinitest evaluation). The two re­
maining species of the key, A . aceti and C. 
oxydans, both clear the CaC0 3 of Frateur 
medium. However, on Frateur medium, A. 
aceti will further metabolize, overoxidize, the 
acetate formed, and the dissolved CaC0 3 will 
reprecipitate. The Cluconobacter does not show 
such subsequent reclouding. The reprecipi­
tated CaC0 3 has a silkier appearance as com­
pared to the initial suspended CaC0 3• The 
reprecipitation commences near the colony, 
and its appearance has sometimes been de­
scribed as irisation, having the appearance of 
an iris of the eye (Holt 1984) (Figure 9-8). 
This key deals with the species accepted in 
Bergey's Manual of Systematic Bacteriology (Holt 
1984). The ninth edition of Bergey's Manual of 
Determinative Bacteriology (Holt et al. 1993) gives 
three additional species of acetobacter : A. dia­
zotrophicus, which grows on 30% D-glucose, A. 
methanolicus, which grows on methanol, and 
A. xylinum. A. xylinum has been isolated from 
vinegar and gives the "production of a thick, 
leathery, zoogloeal, cellulosic" membrane on 
the surface of liquids (Buchanan and Gibbons 
1974). The characteristics of A. xylinum are 
much like A. aceti , except the former will not 
show growth on CaC0 3-ethanol medium (see 
also the discussion on ropy wine in Section 
G3). The ninth edition of Bergey's Manual of 
Determinative Bacteriology (Holt et al. 1993) also 
lists two additional species of gluconobacter: 
C. frateuril which will grow on ribitol and C. 
asaii which require nicotinate for growth . I. SPOILAGE BY OTHER AEROBIC 
BACTERIA 
1. Spoilage by Bacillus 
Spoilages by Bacillus spp. have previously been 
reported in experimental dessert wines (Gini Micromological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 377 
Fig. 9-7. Formation of soluble brown pigments by 
Acetobacter liquejaciens. eyc medium: Top: A. pasteuri­
anus; Right: A . liquefaciens; Left: A. aceti. 
and Vaughn 1962). More serious have been 
the reports of widespread infections of bacilli 
in wines from the former Eastern bloc coun­
tries (Bisson and Kunkee 1991). We ourselves 
have isolated bacilli from several wines from 
the Balkans. The damage seems to be cos­
metic; bench tastings of the these wines indi-
Fig. 9-8. Reclouding of calcium carbonate medium by Acetobacter aceti. Left: clearing 
and subsequent reclouding (irisation) of CaCO~-Ethanol medium by A. aceti. Right: 
clearing of CaC0 3-Ethanol medium and no reclouding by Gluconobacter oxydans. 378 MicrofJiological SPoilage of Wine and Its Control 
cated no off-characters, in fact, they were ex­
cellent. The bacteria are obligate aerobes, and 
the anaerobic conditions of the bottled wine 
probably limit the spoilage damage. However, 
in stored wines, in tank or barrels, the chances 
of increased oxygen tension in the wine is real. 
We have had reports, clandestine but limited, 
of this kind of spoilage in some wineries in 
California. The only preventative and control 
measures that can currently be given are the 
same as those given for the acetic acid bacte­
ria, above. However, bacilli are endospore for­
mers, the spores being demonstrably resistant 
to heat. More research is needed to determine 
if the spore-forming capability also renders the 
bacteria more resistant to chemical additives, 
namely, S02. 
The species of Bacillus are identified as 
being catalase positive (Appendix G) and show 
no clearing of CaC0 3-ethanol plates, see 
above. Spores, if present, are heat-resistant, 
retaining viability after being heated for one 
minute at 100°C. Spore formation is usually 
observed in old cultures. Their formation is 
stimulated in media containing 40 mg/L 
MnS0 4• Suspected organisms should be grown 
on bacillus-sporulation medium (Appendix F); 
and after good growth, heated as given above 
and then plated out for detection of viable 
cells. The spores are also resistant to 70°C for 
10 minutes or to 95% ethanol for 20 minutes. 
The bacilli are a "diverse assemblage that is a 
grouping of convenience" (Holt 1986); estab­
lishment of genus identification is probably as 
much as the wine microbiologist can expect. 
2. Spoilage by Zymomonas 
Actually we know of no case of wine spoilage 
by Zymomonas, although they have been found 
as spoilers of beers and apple wines. They are 
facultative aerobic/anaerobic bacteria having 
much of the fermentative capacity of Saccha­
romyces wine yeast, and are included here for 
completeness. They are catalase positive and 
easily tolerate 5% ethanol and pHs as low as 
3.5. They are distinguished from Acetobader 
and Gluconobacter in that they grow under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, pro­
duce gas from glucose, and quantitatively fer­
ment glucose (and fructose and sucrose) to 
ethanol and carbon dioxide. There is one 
species, Z. mobilis, divided into two subspecies: 
mobilis, which grows at 36°C; and pomaci, which 
does not. Zymomonas is the agent in the fer­
mentation of agave sap to pulque (Swings and 
DeLey 1977). 
J. REFERENCES 
ALLEVA, J. J., P. F. BONVENTRE, and C. LAMANNA. 
1979. "Inhibition of ovulation in hamsters by 
the protein synthesis inhibitors diphtheria toxin 
and cycloheximide." Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 
162:170-174. 
AMERINE, M. A., BERG, H. W., KUNKEE, R. E., OUGH, 
C. S., SINGLETON, V. L. SINGLETON, and WEBB, A. 
D. 1980. The Technology of Wine Making, 4th ed. 
Westport, CT: Avi Publishing Co. 
AMON, J. F., R. F. SIMPSON, and J. M. VANDEPEER. 
1987. "A taint in wood-matured wine at­
tributable to microbiological contamination of 
the oak barrel." Austral. N. Z. Wine Ind. J. 
2:35-37. 
AsAl, T. 1968. Acetic Acid Bacteria; Classification and 
Biochemical Activities. Baltimore: University Park 
Press. 
BARTHOLOMEW, J. E., and T. MITTWER. 1950. "A 
simplified bacterial spore stain." Stain Technol. 
25:153-156. 
BEECH, F. W. 1993. Yeasts in cider-making. In, The 
Yeasts, 2nd ed., A. H. Rose and J. S. Harrison, 
Eds., Vol. 5, pp. 169-213, London: Academic 
Press. 
BEECH, F. w., and J. G. CARR. 1977. "Cider and 
perry." In Economic Microbiology, Vol. 1, Alco­
holic Beverages, A. H. Rose, Ed., pp. 139-313. 
New York: Academic Press. 
BELIN, J.-M. 1972. "Recherches sur la repartition 
des levures a surface de la grappe de raisin." 
Vitis 11:135-145. 
BELIN, J.-M., and P. HENRY. 1972. "Contribution a 
I' etude ecologique des levures dans Ie vignoble. 
Repartition des levures a la surface du pedicelle 
et de la baie de raisin." C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris 
274D:2318-2320. BISSON, L. F., and R E. KUNKEE. 1991. "Microbial 
interactions during wine production." In, Mixed 
Cultures in Biotechnology, G. Zeikus and E. A. 
Johnson, Eds., pp. 37-68. New York: McGraw­
Hill, Inc. 
BUCHANAN, R. E., and N. E. GIBBONS. 1974. Bergey's 
Manual of Determinative Bacteriology, 8th ed. Balti­
more: Williams & Watkins. 
CANAL-LLAUBERES, R.-M., D. DUBOURDlEU, B. 
RICHARD, and A. LONVAUD-FUNEL. 1989. "Struc­
ture moleculaire B-D-glucane exocullulaire de 
Pediococcus sp." Conn. Vigne Vin. 23:49-52. 
CHATONNET, P., D. DUBOURDIEU, .J.-N. BOIDRON, and 
M. PONS. 1992. "The origin of ethylphenols in 
wines." I Sci. Food Agric. 60:165-178. 
CHATONNET, P., D. DUBOURDIEU, .J.-N. BOIDRON, and 
V. LAVIGNE. 1993. "Synthesis of volatile phenols 
by Saccharomyces cerevisiae in wines." I Sci. Food 
Agric. 62:191-202. 
CHATONNET, P., D. DUBOURDIEU, and.J.-N. BOIDRON. 
1989. "Incidence de certains facteurs sur la 
decarboxylation des acides phenols par la lev­
ure." Conn. Vigne Vin 23:59-62. 
COLEY-SMITH,.J. R , K. VERHOEFF, and W. R JARVIS. 
1980. The Biology of Botrytis. New York: Academic 
Press. 
CRAIG, .J. T., and T. HERESZTYN. 1984. "2-Ethyl-
3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyridine-An assessment of its 
possible contribution to the mousy off-flavor of 
wines." Am.I Enol. Vitic. 35:46-48. 
CROWELL, E. A., and.J. F. GUYMON. 1975. "Wine 
constituents arising from sorbic acid addition 
and identification of 2-ethoxyhexa-3,5-diene as 
source of geranium-like off-odor." Am. I Enol. 
Vitic. 26:97-102. 
DAVIS, C. R, T. H. LEE, and G. H. FLEET. 1982. 
"Inactivation of wine cork microflora by a com­
mercial sulfur dioxide treatment." Am. I Enol. 
Vitic. 33:124-127. 
DE Mfu"l, J. C., M. ROGOSA, and M. E. SHARPE. 1960. 
"A medium for the cultivation of lactobacilli." I 
Appl. Bacteriol. 23:130-135. 
DITTRICH, H. H. 1987. Mikrobiologie des Weines. 2nd 
ed. Stuttgart, Germany: Ulmer. 
DRYSDALE, G. S., and G.H. FLEET. 1988. "Acetic acid 
bacteria winemaking: A review." Am. I Enol. 
Vitic.39:143-154. 
DRYSDALE, G. S., and G. H. FLEET. 1989. "The effect 
of acetic acid bacteria upon the growth and 
metabolism of yeasts during the fermentation of 
grape juice." I Appl. Bacteriol. 67:471. Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 379 
EBNER, H. 1982. Vinegar. In, Prescott & Dunn's Indus­
trial Microbiology, 4th ed., G. Reed, Ed. Westport, 
Connecticut: A VI Publishing Co. 
FLEET, G.H., G. M. HEARD, and C. GAO. 1988. "The 
effect of temperature on the growth and ethanol 
tolerance of yeast during fermentation." Yeast 
5:543-546. 
FORNACHON, J. C. M., H. C. DOUGLAS, and R H. 
VAUGHN. 1949. "Lactobacillus trichodes nov. 
spec., a bacterium causing spoilage in appetizer 
and dessert wines." Hilgardia 19:129-132. 
FUGELSANG, K. c., M. M. OSBORN, and c.]. MULLER. 
1993. Brettanomyces and Dekkera: Implications in 
wine making. In Beer and Wine Production-Anal­
ysis, Characterization, and Technological Advances. 
ACS Symposium Series 536, B. H. Gump and D. 
J. Pruett, Eds., pp. 110-131. Washington, DC: 
American Chemical Society. 
GAUNT, D. M., H. DEGN, and D. LLOYD. 1988. "The 
influence of oxygen and organic hydrogen ac­
ceptors on glycolytic carbon dioxide production 
in Brettanomyces anomalus." Yeast 4:249-255. 
GINI, B., and R. H. VAUGHN. 1962. "Bacilli in wine." 
Am.I Enol. Vitic. 30:24-27. 
GUINARD, ].-X. 1990. Lambic. Boulder, CO: Brewers 
Publications. 
GOSWELL, R W., and R. E. KUNKEE. 1977. "Fortified 
wines." In Economic Microbiology, Vol. 1, Alco­
holic Beverages, A. H. Rose, Ed., pp. 478-535. 
New York: Academic Press. 
HANSEN, E. C. 1896. Practical Studies in Fermentation, 
pp. 512. New York: Spon and Chamberlain. 
HERESZTYN, T. 1986a. "Formation of substituted te­
trahydropyridines by species of Brettanomyces and 
Lactobacillus isolated from mousy wines." Am. I 
Enol. Vitic. 37:127-132. 
HERESZTYN, T. 1986b. "Metabolism of volatile phe­
nolic compounds from hydroxycinnamic acid by 
Brettanomyces yeast." Arch. Microbiol. 146:96-98. 
HOCK, S. 1990. "Coping with Brettanomyces." Pract. 
Wine Vine. January /February:26-31. 
HOLT, J. G. 1984. Bergey's Manual of Systematic Bacte­
riology, Vol 1. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins. 
HOLT,]. G. 1986. Bergey's Manual of Systematic Bacte­
riology, vol 2. Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins. 
HOLT, J. G., N. R KRIEG, P. H. A. SNEATH,]. T. 
STALEY, and S. T. WILLIAMS. 1993. Bergey's Manual 
of Determinative Bacteriology, 9th ed. Baltimore: 
Williams & Wilkins. 380 Micromological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 
HUMPHRIES, J. C., T. M. JANE, and M. A. SEFTON. 
1992. "The influence of yeast fermentation on 
volatile oak extractives." Austral. Grapegrow. 
Winemak. No. 343 July:17-18. 
ILAGA.'\' , R. D. 1979. "Studies of the Sporulation of 
Dekkera." M.S. thesis, Davis, CA: University of 
California. 
KOCH, R 1881. "Zur Ziichtung von pathogen en 
Mikro-organismen." Kaiserl. Gesundheitsampte 1, 
4-48. 
KREGER-VAN RIJ, N. J. W. 1984. The Yeasts, A Taxo­
nomic Study. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Pub­
lishers. 
KUNKEE, R E. 1967. "Malolactic fermentation." 
Adv. Appl. Microbiol. 9:235-279. 
KUNKEE, R. E. 1974. "Malolactic fermentation and 
winemaking." In The Chemistry of Winemaking, 
Adv. Chern. Ser. 137, A. D. Webb, Ed., pp. 
151-170. Washington, DC: American Chemical 
Society. 
KUNKEE, R E. 1984. "Selection and modification of 
yeasts and lactic acid bacteria for wine fermenta­
tion." Food Microbiol. 1:315-332. 
KUNKEE, R E., G. J. PILONE, and R. E. COMBS. 1965. 
"The occurrence of malo-lactic fermentation in 
Southern California wines." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
16:219-223. 
LAFoN-IMOURCADE, S. 1983. "Wine and brandy." In 
Biotechnology, A Comprehensive Treatise in 8 Vol­
umes, Eds. H.·:J. Rehm and G. Reed, Vol. 5, pp. 
81-163. Weinheim: Verlag Chemie. 
LAGUNAS, R., C. DOMINGUEZ, A. BCSTCRIA, and M. J. 
SAEZ. 1982. "Mechanisms of appearance of the 
Pasteur effect in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Inacti­
vation of the sugar transport system. J. Bacteriol. 
152:19-25. 
LARUE, F., N. ROZES, I. FROUDIERE, C. COC1Y, and G. 
P. PERREIRA. 1991. "Incidence du developpe­
ment de Dekkera / Brettanomyces dans les mouts 
et les vins." J. Int. Sci. Vign Vin 25:149-165. 
LEFEBVRE, A., J.-M. RIBOULET, J.-N. BOlDRON, and P. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1983. "Incidence des micro­
organismes du Ji(~ge sur les alterations olfactives 
du vin." Sci. Ali. 3:265-278. 
LLAUBERES, R.-M. 1988. Les polysaccharides secretes 
dans les vins par Saccharomyces cerevisiae et 
Pediococcus sp. PhD thesis, Talence, France.: 
University of Bordeaux II. LLAUBERES, R-M., D. DUBOURDlEU, andJ. C. VILLET· 
TAZ. 1987. "Exocellular poly-saccharides from 
Saccharomyces in wine." J. Sci. Food. Agric. 41:27. 
LONV ALD-FuNEL, A. 1986. Recherches sur les 
bacteries lactiques du vin. Fonctions metabo­
liques, croissance, genetique plasmidique. PhD 
thesis, Talence, France: University of Bordeaux 
II. 
LONVAUD-FuNEL, A., A. JOYEUX, and C. ROULLAND. 
1990. "Etude d'alterations des vin par les 
bacteries lactiques." In, Actualities OEnologiques 
89, P. Ribereau-Gayon and A. Lonvaud, Eds., pp. 
378-382. Paris: Dunod. 
LUTHI, H. R. 1957. "Symbiotic problems relating to 
bacterial deterioration of wines." Am. J. Enol. 
Vitic. 8: 176-181. 
MALLETROIT, V., J.-X. GClNARD, R. E. KUNKEE, and 
M. J. LEWIS. 1991. "Effect of pasteurization on 
microbiological and sensory quality of white 
grape juice and wine." J. Food Process. Preserv. 
15:19-29. 
MEYNELL, G. G., and E. ME'Y:\IELL. 1965. Theory and 
Practice in Experimental Bacteriology. Cambridge, 
U.K.: Cambridge University Press. 
OCGH, C. S., and M. A. A.,"IERINE. 1988. Methods for 
Analysis of Musts and Wines. New York: John 
Wiley and Sons. 
OLGH, C. S., and J. L. INGRAHAM. 1960. "Use of 
sorbic acid and sulfur dioxide in sweet table 
wines." AmJ.Enol. Vitic. 11:117-122. 
OUGH, C. S., R E. KL:-.IKEE, M. R. VilAS, E. BORDEU, 
and M.-C. HUANG. 1988. "The interaction of 
sulfur dioxide, pH, and dimethyl decarbonate 
on the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Montra­
chet and Leuconostoc oenos MCW." Am. J. Enol. 
Vitic. 38:279-282. 
PASTEUR, L. 1866. Etudes sur Ie Vin. Paris: Victor 
Masson et Fils. 
PE'Y:\IAUD, E., and S. DOMERCQ. 1955. "Sur les epeces 
de levu res fermentant selectivement Ie fructose." 
Ann. Inst. Past. 89:346-351. 
RADLER, F., and S. HARTEL. 1984. Lactobacillus tri­
chodes, ein Alkoholabhandiges Milchsaurebak­
terium. Wein-Wissen. 39: 1 06-112. 
RAPP, A. 1988. "Wine aroma substances form gas 
chromatographic analyses." In, Wine Analysis, 
Modern Methods of Plant Analysis, H. F. Linskens 
and J. F. Jackson, Eds., New Series Vol. 6, pp. 
29-66. Berlin: Springer-Verlag. ROMANO, P., and G. Suzz!. 1993. "Potential use for 
Zygosaccharomyces species in Winemaking." J. 
Wine Res. 4:87-94. 
ROSE, A. H. 1961. Industrial Microbiology. Washing­
ton, DC: ButtelWorths. 
SPONHOLZ, W.-R. 1994. "Identification of wine 
aroma defects caused by yeast and bacteria." 
Proceedings of the Twenty-Third Annual New York 
Wine Industry Workshop, pp. 78-95. Geneva, New 
York: New York State Agricultural Experiment 
Station. 
SWINGS, J., and J. DELEY. 1977. "The biology of 
Zymomonas." Bacteriol. Rev. 41: 1 -46. 
TAYLOR, J. 1962. "The estimation of numbers of 
bacteria by tenfold dilution series." J. Appl. Bac­
teriol. 25:54-6l. 
THOMAS, D. S. 1993. "Yeasts as spoilage organisms 
in beverages." In, The Yeasts, 2nd edition, A. H. 
Rose andJ. S. Harrison, Eds., Vol 5, pp. 517-56l. 
New York: Academic Press. 
TUCKNOTT, O. G., and A. A. WILLIAMS. 1973. "Taints 
in fermented juice products." Annual Report Long 
Ashton Research Station for 1972, p. 159. Dorch­
ester, UK: H. Ling. Microbiological Spoilage of Wine and Its Control 381 
VAN DER WALT, J. P., and A. E. VA." KERKEN. 1958. 
"The wine yeasts of the Cape, Part II." Ant. 
Leeuvwen. 25:449-459. 
VA." DER WALT, J. P., and A. E. VAN KERKEN. 1961. 
"The wine yeasts of the Cape, Part V." Ant. 
Leeuvwen. 27:81-90. 
VAN URK, H., W. S. L. VOLL, W. A. SCHEFFERS, andJ. 
P. VA." DIJKEN. 1990. "Transient-state analysis of 
metabolic fluxes in Crabtree-positive and Crab­
tree-negative yeasts." Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 
56:281-287. 
VA." ZYI., J. A. 1962. "Turbidity in South African dry 
wines caused by the development of the Bret­
tanomyces yeast." Dept. Agric. Tech. Ser., Pretoria, 
Sci. Bull. No. 38l. 
VAUGHN, R. H. 1955. "Bacterial spoilage of wines 
with special reference to California conditions." 
Adv. Food Res. 6:67-108. 
WI]SMAN, M. R., J. P. VAN DI./KE]\;, B. H. VAN KLEEFF, 
and W. A. SCHEFFERS. 1984. "Inhibition of fer­
mentation and growth in batch cultures of the 
yeast Brettanomyces intermedius upon a shift from 
aerobic to anaerobic conditions (Custers effect)." 
Ant. Leeuwen. 50:183-192. CHAPTER 10 
THE MATURATION AND AGING OF WINES 
A. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES 
1. Definitions 
In total, wine aging can be considered to be 
all the reactions and changes that occur after 
the first racking that lead to improvement at 
some stage rather than spoilage. Aging, like all 
groups of reactions, takes more or less time 
depending upon temperature and other con­
ditions. In early times malolactic fermentation, 
final clarification, and tartrate stabilization 
come about during the postfermentation pe­
riod and were part of "aging." As the details 
of such reactions became understood they 
were separated from aging and considered in 
their own right. This process continues today 
as separate reactions of the overall process are 
dissected apart. A great deal has been learned 
by studying various component reactions, con­
ditions, and procedures. By such study, wine 
aging is easily seen to be not an entity but a 
family of changes. Wine aging should not be 
thought of as a single procedure nor even a 
single result. 
382 Two major stages, bulk and bottle, are use­
ful subcategories of this family of processes. 
During bulk storage wine may be relatively 
easily exposed to conditions such as oxidation 
and to further treatments. During storage in 
bottle or even in simulations of bottle storage 
in larger containers, further processing or 
modification is unproductive. Debottling is ob­
viously costly and wasteful. Disruption of the 
essentially anaerobic condition in bottles or 
bottle-like storage defeats part of the intent for 
such storage. 
A useful distinction is to define the bulk 
storage period as maturation and the bottle or 
equivalent storage as aging or bottle aging. 
When properly matured the wine is ripe to 
bottle. All the affordable processes including 
blending that bring the wine to the condition 
optimum for bottling should have been com­
pleted when the wine is mature. Aging in 
bottle then will permit slower reactions to con­
tinue and reactions requiring different condi­
tions, particularly freedom from air contact 
and from escape of highly volatile substances. To be sure we are understood and to make 
useful distinctions a few sensory terms need 
definition. Aroma includes the odors derived 
from the grape such as varietal aromas. Bou­
quets are the odors derived from processing or 
aging, such as fermentation bouquet or bottle 
bouquet. To be odorous a substance must be 
volatile and stimulate odor receptors in the 
nose. Taste is restricted to those sensations that 
require placing the wine in the mouth. Astrin­
gency, bitterness, tartness, and sweetness are im­
portant feelings and tastes in wines. Flavor is 
the overall character including feelings, tastes 
and odors or a general term when both or 
either oral and nasal sensations may be in­
volved. 
2. Historical and Economic Aspects 
There have been many papers on specific as­
pects of wine aging and we will cite some of 
them later, but relatively few cover general 
aspects (Malvezin 1903; Singleton 1962, 1979; 
Ribereau-Gayon 1986). 
Food preparation and distribution today 
emphasize freshness and storage without ap­
preciable change. We tend to forget that some 
dishes taste better the second day or warmed 
over (even if many do not). To some, canned 
green beans are better than fresh frozen ones 
and at least a valuable alternative. It is com­
mon that processed products exhibit an initial 
quality gain as judged by sensory panels a few 
weeks after processing, followed by first-order 
degradation (Open 1979). There are a number 
of foods and beverages in addition to wine 
that are considerably improved by appropriate 
aging. Sugar-cured and smoked ham, salami, 
many cheeses, vinegars, whiskey. and other 
spirituous beverages come to mind. Perfumes 
and condiments such as mustard preparations 
and tabasco sauces are others. 
The point is that aging for modification, 
improvement, and to command a higher price 
is by no means confined to wines. A second 
point is that the results of wine aging are 
attractive to the consumer. Unwarned, the The Maturation and Aging of Wines 383 
person familiar only with young wines may be 
startled by the differences in aged wines and 
might be wary of what has happened to them. 
The aged wine flavors are, however, inherently 
and immediately attractive and do not require 
learned appreciation in the way Limburger 
cheese may. 
A third point is that the methods of wine 
maturation and aging considered traditional 
today were not deliberately developed, but 
grew out of simple efforts to extend availability 
and preservation of wines. The procedures 
such as protection from excessive air contact, 
storage in wooden cooperage, use of cork 
stoppers, etc., grew out of the use of materials 
at hand. Adaptation and spread of particular 
usages occurred slowly as the products were 
seen to be protected or improved by that 
procedure. It is a tortuous path from the 
unglazed ceramics and raw, hair-inside 
goatskins of biblical times to the present wine 
containers. Now we have the best synthesis of 
older practices, combined with much clearer 
understanding of the processes and modern 
techniques ensuring safety and sanitation. Part 
of the esteem for good aged wine as it oc­
curred in Roman times must have been from 
its rarity as well as its charm. Today, properly 
aged wines are not just lucky escapes from 
hazards, but regularly are attainable goals 
which can be adjusted for types and styles of 
particular wines. 
Wine maturation and aging to some degree 
is inevitable. It takes some time after wines are 
fermented to prepare them for marketing. 
Bottled wines do not reach customers immedi­
ately and are often consumed months or years 
later. If wines are to be continuously available 
in retail shops all over the country, there is 
obviously need to consider changes and dif­
ferences that may result. Every change is not 
automatically an improvement. Loss of fresh 
grape aroma may be undesirable with some 
wines and expected with others. This and other 
examples of flavor losses and gains with stor­
age are of concern whether one wishes to 
prevent or profit from them. 384 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
Economics change so fast that it is not very 
useful to be specific, but a few general per­
spectives seem important. A small producer of 
a premium wine generally would like each 
wine to be all sold and shipped by the time the 
next vintage is ready to be released. If it is all 
gone too soon the risk is run that retailers, 
restaurants, and customers will forget about 
that winery before the next release. There will 
be a temptation to release too soon. Too rapid 
movement may be slowed by allocation or 
price increases, but in the long run price must 
be justified by quality compared to competi­
tion. The more common problem of too slow 
movement can only partly be combated by 
lowering the price. Obviously, if costs are not 
recovered the winery cannot remain finan­
cially sound. Furthermore, costs are incurred 
in longer storage, which raises the break-even 
price. 
A cost that is obvious, but sometimes forgot­
ten, is the cost of the capital tied up in the 
aging wine. Either the cost of the interest on 
the loan or the lost interest that could have 
been earned had the wine been sold and the 
money invested are real considerations. Unless 
the selling price of the wine can be raised to 
cover this and other aging costs, the producer 
who has the option would be advised to sell 
the young wine and invest the returns else­
where. Assume annual compounded costs of 
wine storage to be 14% (a value probably low 
including costs of capital, insurance, and ware­
housing and about 3% annual loss by evapora­
tion in bulk storage or extra costs and risks 
after bottling). If a wine could be sold at a 
break-even price of $l/L right after vintage, 
after three years in bulk and two in bottle one 
would need $1.93/L or nearly double to still 
break even. This does not even include capital 
and depreciation costs of barrels and other 
equipment, labor, and other potential costs 
and risks. Aging by the winemaker should 
definitely not be prolonged beyond the point 
that quality improvement and salability justify 
a net increase in return. In the long run it 
cannot be if the winery is to remain economi­
cally viable. Particularly in some old wine areas in other 
countries this has not always been realized. As 
production exceeded consumption, stocks ac­
cumulated. Well-financed holders visualized 
their aging stocks of wine as equivalent to gold 
bars in a vault. In terms of security they might 
be justified, but wine is more perishable than 
gold. If such assets do not appreciate as fast as 
costs plus inflation, their real value drops. 
Meanwhile, no current return is earned. A 
number of examples have occurred in our 
experience where such aged wines at relatively 
low prices are discovered by wine consumers 
and bought out over a few years. The produc­
ers find that they cannot afford to replace 
these stocks with equally aged wines. The qual­
ity drops, the consumer loses interest, and 
either the cycle eventually repeats or that par­
ticular wine type disappears. Like any other 
business operation, wine maturation and aging 
must be scrutinized as to costs, efficiency, ben­
efits, and rewards. 
Consider a large winery with a brand name 
to support. In order to keep stocks on hand in 
shops over the nation, they may need to bottle 
and ship their major nonvintage types at fre­
quent intervals, say weekly throughout the 
year. If they matched production to sales and 
used first-in first-out inventory management, 
the last bottling before wines of the new vin­
tage were available would be one year old and 
the next bottling would be unaged. Even un­
der this scenario the average age upon ship­
ment would be six months, the absolute mini­
mum if wine is to be continuously available. 
The net effect would be a sudden change as 
the new vintage came on line. This probably 
would engender consumer reaction. The more 
regular and discerning consumers, the most 
valuable ones, would be the most likely to 
complain. 
A way to counteract such sudden changes 
resulting from age and vintage differences is 
to blend a proportion increasing with time of 
the younger with the older wine. The mini­
mum constant average age possible would be 
12 months. The minimum carry over of the 
previous year's vintage to make this possible is a six months' supply. Therefore, just after vin­
tage the winery following this program would 
need to have on hand one and one-half times 
their annual sales. For example, then, the first 
weekly bottling after the new vintage was fin­
ished would have 1/52 of its volume the new 
vintage and 51/52 the old. Increasing the 
proportion of the newer wine 1/52 each week 
it would become the old wine at 12 months 
age just before the next vintage was available. 
Of course, by American law such blending 
cannot exceed 5% of the volume from an­
other calendar year for wines bearing a vin­
tage date. This is an example of the freedom 
for wine improvement given up by the wine­
maker in order to comply with regulatory lim­
its on label descriptions deemed prestigious. 
One and one-half years total aging is to be 
expected as the minimum age at consumption 
for all wines not expressly hurried through the 
system, allowing 12 months to bottle and six 
months from bottling to consumption. There­
fore, wine maturation and aging are to be 
considered by all winemakers regardless of the 
wines they are making and the price category 
targeted. 
The actual inventory of all Californian wine 
on December 31 and the annual shipments for 
several calendar years are shown in Table 10-1. 
Separate consideration of dessert wines in re­
cent years indicates a slightly shorter average 
age than for table wines. Sparkling wine inven­
tories are only half or less of the annual sales. 
This suggests six-month aging is typical once 
the wine is identified as sparkling, but proba­
bly the base wines are inventoried as table 
wines. There are several caveats in using such 
figures. For example, wine shipped between 
vintage and December 31 would skew and 
shorten the apparent age. This would include 
the nouveau types and some blush wines. Such 
wines are hurried to market to keep them 
fresh and fruity, but they would also distort the 
figures for the other wines. Furthermore, ship­
ments do not directly equate to sales to the 
public and certainly not to consumption. Nev­
ertheless, the figures do agree with an approx-The Maturation and Aging of Wines 385 
Table lO-l. Yearly shipments to all markets and 
December 31 inventories of Californian wines. I 
Shipments Inventory 
Year (ML) (ML) Sill 
1970 742 1017 1.37 
1975 1032 1572 1.52 
1980 1281 2175 1.70 
1981 1356 2155 1.59 
1982 1357 2503 1.84 
1983 1376 2322 1.69 
1984 1412 2284 1.68 
1985 1483 2278 1.66 
1986 1603 2203 1.50 
1987 1605 2113 1.45 
1988 1561 2107 1.46 
1989 1500 2116 1.52 
1990 1478 2086 1.52 
1991 1419 2115 1.49 
1992 1448 2035 1.41 
lCorrected 1983+ by exclusion of nonwine portions of wine 
coolers. 
Wine Industry Statistical Reports (annual), San Francisco, Wine 
Institute. 
imate average age by shipment of the order of 
12 months for the average wine. 
The large unanticipated increase in inven­
tory in 1982 (Table 10-I) resulted from an 
uncommonly big vintage coinciding with addi­
tional vineyards coming into bearing. Al­
though the increased proportion of inventory 
to shipments only increased the stock from 
about 1.60 to 1.84 year's supply, this was suf­
ficient to create considerable consternation 
about excess wine supply. Discussion of this 
excess in the press may have helped prevent 
continued increase of consumption typical for 
the period as distributors and consumers an­
ticipated decreased prices. This shows that at 
least under prevalent economic conditions, 
building inventory by increasing general aging 
is not an attractive option for wine producers 
as a group. 
It would appear from these data that only a 
small proportion of wines receive more than 
12 months of aging before shipment. This is 
not so surprising considering that premium 
wines are a small but increasing portion of the 386 The Maturation and Aging of Wi1U\5 
total wine volume. One would expect red table 
wines to be matured longer than white and 
Chardonnay longer than other whites. Among 
vintage-dated, varietal wines available at retail 
in October 1991 the age indicated (by sub­
tracting vintage year from current year) and 
averaging for all the different Californian la­
bels available in a large shop was 1.5 years for 
Chenin blanc, 1.6 years for Sauvignon blanc, 
2.2 years for Chardonnay, 2.6 years for Zinfan­
del, and 4.5 years for Cabernet Sauvignon. 
These figures are considered representative. 
With wines which benefit considerably from 
aging, there is a very rough direct correspon­
dence among age, price, and quality. The 
higher-priced wine should be higher quality 
and is likely to be aged longer. Competition 
helps set the price and production costs may 
not be higher for a wine in demand than for 
one priced lower because it is not known. The 
naive visualize that the quality of the wine only 
rich people can afford is very great compared 
to that they can afford. The fact is that the 
average quality increment per dollar of in­
creased bottle price is greater at the lower end 
of the price range than at the high-priced end. 
When scarcity and past reputation sets the 
price, there is no guarantee of a quality incre­
ment with higher price. On the other hand, 
producers receiving a high price can afford 
longer aging and meticulous attention to every 
detail. They have a great incentive and pride 
in justifying and improving the premium their 
wines enjoy. Wine is unusual among agricul­
tural products in that there is direct linkage 
from the farmer to the wine maker to the 
consumer. Considerations like these keep, and 
we hope always will keep, wine from being just 
a commodity. The romantic and sensuous as­
pects of wine would be shallow if only based 
on mystique, but they are validated by com­
plexities of science and technology. Greater 
knowledge has not only caused the average 
quality of wine to be much better but it has 
also made the best wines better and more 
prevalent. Modernizing and controlling of ag­
ing has helped greatly and bids to do more in the future in the effort to make superlative 
wine widely available at equitable prices. 
3. Objectives 
The general objectives of maturation and ag­
ing fall into four groups that may be termed 
subtraction, addition, carry over, and multiplica­
tion. The final consideration is integration of 
these objectives into a whole for each wine. 
Keep in mind that there is no single reaction 
that defines the process. Aging is traditionally 
slow and for flavor to be changed relatively 
few molecules of key compounds need be 
changed. The optimum or usual regime and 
specific objectives differ by wine, by producer, 
and by consumer group. 
a. Subtraction 
Some characteristics and conditions present at 
first racking need to be removed or dimin­
ished. Among these may be removal of the 
gassiness of the carbon dioxide of fermenta­
tion and of yeast effects on flavor and appear­
ance. Harsh or "green" flavors may be pre­
sent and need modification. Young wines may 
be excessively tart or tannic (astringent) and 
require adjustments. 
A good rule here, and everywhere during 
wine processing, is to limit treatments to the 
truly necessary minimum. A problem that will 
correct itself in the course of other treatments 
can be allowed to do so. For example, CO 2 
will ordinarily drop to an acceptable level in 
the course of further racking, etc. It could be 
removed quickly by N2 sparging, but this would 
be more costly, it is usually unnecessary, and it 
risks loss of desirable volatile components. On 
the other hand, some situations demand 
prompt aggressive action to prevent or sub­
tract a threatened action. For example, if a 
residual level of fermentable sugar is desired 
in a sweet table wine, prompt removal of yeast 
at the correct point is required as is immedi­
ate prevention if regrowth threatens during 
storage. 
Certain off-flavors mayor may not be pre­
sent in young wines. It is preferable, of course, to prevent their occurrence rather than sub­
tract them after they do occur. An example is 
hydrogen sulfide. If not avoided or removed 
by other means (Chapters 4 and 7), it can be 
lessened by aeration. It is important to deal 
with H2S-related off-flavors in the earliest 
stages because, during aging, modification re­
actions can produce skunky and garlicky 
derivatives worse in flavor and harder to 
remove. 
b. Addition 
An important group of effects sought in matu­
ration and aging is the addition of further 
characteristics. Extraction of flavors from oak, 
development of color and flavor from oxida­
tion, and development of bottle bouquets are 
members of this group. As a rule, such addi­
tions must be limited and subtle so as to com­
plement rather than overshadow the wine's 
underlying flavors. Excessive oakiness, for ex­
ample, has been frequently seen in misman­
aged wines. Oxidation that is appropriate in 
sherries and other maderized wines would be 
highly excessive and undesirable in white table 
wines. 
c. Carry Over 
As much as possible of the attractive grapey­
fruitiness and especially the varietal aromas 
and flavors should be retained and carried 
forward during maturation and aging. The 
same is true of the desirable vinous flavors 
from the wine fermentation. Aging may 
strengthen some such flavors as, for example, 
acid hydrolysis of their glycosides can augment 
the volatile terpenes of Muscat family varieties. 
d. Multiplication, Complexity 
For the majority of wines whose flavors do not 
depend primarily upon processing, the char­
acter of a young well-made example can be 
quite attractive and its quality high. Neverthe­
less, appropriate maturation and aging can 
contribute breadth, depth, and complexity and 
increase its value without overthrowing its fun-The Maturation and Aging of Wines 387 
damental nature. The effect can be likened to 
adding instruments to an orchestra even 
though the same score is played. Another 
analogy is adding a pinch of several spices 
rather than none or too much of one to an 
elegant food recipe. Complexity and increased 
interest will result if properly done. The con­
cert, the meal, or the wine will be more in­
triguing, less rapidly tiring, and less likely to 
satiate if it is complex and displays many facets 
to the senses. 
As mentioned under addition, the changes 
must be small and subtle if complexity is to be 
enhanced. Multiplication of flavors may be 
illustrated best by an example that is essen­
tially hypothetical. At the end of fermentation 
there are four alcohols present, say ethanol 
and three amyl alcohol isomers. If each was 
partially oxidized to an aldehyde and those in 
turn to carboxy acids the four compounds 
would have become 12. If each alcohol esteri­
fied with each acid, 16 additional compounds 
would result for a total of 28. The aldehydes 
might form hemiacetals and acetals with the 
alcohols and at least theoretically this could 
add 16 hemiacetals and 64 acetals to give a 
maximum of 108 compounds from the origi­
nal four. Each of these compounds would have 
slight to great effects on flavor and would 
certainly add to complexity. If all the alcohols 
had been completely oxidized to acids, we 
would be back to just four compounds and less 
desirable ones at that. Complexity is maximum 
at the intermediate stage that accommodates 
the greatest number of flavorful compounds 
and diminishes before and after this stage. 
Furthermore in this example, since esters are 
more odorous and flavorful (have lower flavor 
thresholds) than alcohols, there would be an 
increase of overall odor intensity in the inter­
mediate stages. 
Although such arguments seem sound, we 
know of only one experimental effort to prove 
that increased complexity of flavor gives in­
creased quality. Singleton and Ough (I962) 
compared 68 individual wines, pairing like with 
like as to type and variety along with a 50 to 50 388 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
blend of the two paired. In seven of the 34 sets 
the blend was rated by a panel as better than 
the higher rated wine of the two. There was 
no significant lowering of the quality rating of 
the blends compared to the better wines even 
when the poorer wine was considerably lower 
in quality rating. All 34 blends were rated as 
improved, compared to the mean quality score 
of the two constituent wines. This effect was 
not due to balancing defects such as a flat 
wine with a tart one and was considered evi­
dence for the value of complexity. 
Almost any process one can think of has 
been tried as a quick-aging process for wine 
(Singleton 1962). The typical sequence has 
been that the first reports for an exotic new 
process are favorable, subsequent reports are 
mostly negative, and finally that process is 
abandoned as unreliable. This sequence can 
be understood on the basis of complexity. 
Almost anything, even the production of a 
new flavor foreign to wine, can add to com­
plexity if very restrained and the treatment 
sufficiently delicate. Unusual treatments inten­
sive enough to make the new flavor obvious 
are likely to reveal that it is unattractive, and 
certainly can reduce complexity. No one is 
interested in introducing unattractive flavors 
even if sufficiently diluted they could add to 
complexity. 
e. Integration of Objectives and 
Aging Efficiency 
The combination of the above objectives and 
aging treatments designed to promote them 
for anyone type and style of wine involve 
compromise. If one wishes to maximize reten­
tion of desirable flavors from the young wine 
over time, protected cold storage is attractive. 
If one wishes to enhance loss of undesirable 
flavors or flavor multiplication effects, warm 
storage is indicated. Overtreatment defeats the 
desirable increase in complexity. A low level of 
oxidation may be desirable in some table wines, 
but bottle bouquet development is opposed in 
wines exposed to appreciable air. 
Judicious blending (see Section 10.F) obvi­
ously can have value in achieving complexity as well as in converting wines with deficiencies 
to improved blends. Overtreatment of a por­
tion of the wine to be added back to the 
non treated portion can permit standardization 
with less risk than treating the whole portion. 
However, stratification and competitive reac­
tion effects may complicate efforts to make 
maturation or aging more rapid and efficient. 
Suppose it is determined that a given wine will 
be improved by the oxidation provided by a 
certain amount of air. Adding all that air at 
once to the headspace of the storage tank may 
allow Acetobacter and other aerobes to grow. 
Even if microbial growth could be prevented 
one would expect differences based on 
whether the wine was stirred or not. In large 
winery containers at fairly low and constant 
temperature there is not much roiling. The 
wine at the top would be expected to become 
more oxidized with a gradient to little or no 
oxidation at the bottom unless the tank was 
stirred. Stirring would be expected to give 
limited uniform reaction instead of a high to 
low gradient. The gradient should give more 
complexity. Overtreatment of a portion and 
blending with the untreated majority could 
give both ends of the gradient, but would 
mcrease risk of different effects from 
overtreatment and might not be equivalent to 
the full range of the gradient. 
A treatment that obviates the necessity for 
an aspect of aging is frequently as good as and 
cheaper than the aging treatment. For exam­
ple, a tannic wine may withstand but also 
require considerable oxidation during matura­
tion to bring the astringency and bitterness 
within the desired range. Decreased pomace 
contact during fermentation coupled with ex­
posure to less oxidation may shorten the mat­
uration period considerably. The maturation 
and aging processes involve so many variables 
that traditional regimens are not likely to be 
easily displaced. They work and they are pho­
togenic, but there are no evident blocks to 
more rapid and efficient procedures based on 
present knowledge and that expected from 
further research. B. TIME-TEMPERATURE 
RELATIONSHIPS AND TRADITIONAL 
REGIMES FOR DIFFERENT CLASSES 
OF WINES 
1. Cellar Temperature and Rate Effects 
Like all chemical reactions, maturation and 
aging will be affected by temperature. Things 
that happen in a given time at a lower temper­
ature almost always happen in a shorter time 
at a warmer temperature. When a specific 
reaction's contribution is known and its kinet­
ics have been studied, accurate prediction of 
its extent and effect under any time-tempera­
ture regime can be made. Some useful gener­
alizations for all reactions can be made. A 
temperature coefficient called the QIO is com­
monly estimated at about 2 among chemical 
reactions. This means that the rate of a typical 
reaction at temperature T + 10°C is about two 
times the rate at TOC. If the concentration of a 
reaction product went from 0 to 500 mgjL in 
a wine kept at 20°C for six months, one would 
expect about 250 mgjL in three months at 
20°C, six months at 10°C, or one and one-half 
months at 30°C. 
A QJO of 2 is fairly typical, but individual 
reactions may be somewhat lower or several 
times higher. In spite of some claims to the 
contrary, enzymic reactions do not seem to be 
a significant part of traditional wine matura­
tion and aging. One bit of evidence is that the 
activity of enzymes added to wine falls to un­
detectable within several weeks or a few 
months even under cool storage. Their activity 
is usually inhibited by the low pH and high 
alcohol content. Enzymes naturally present are 
apt to have been removed by tannins or by 
fining agents. Enzymic reaction rates are in­
creased by increased temperature at low levels, 
up to an optimum temperature. The optimum 
temperature is fairly low because of the de­
struction of the enzyme's highly ordered but 
weakly bonded, catalytically active center as 
temperatures exceed the optimum. The QIO 
for enzyme inactivation is in the hundreds, not 
2. Pasteurization conditions, say three minutes The Maturation and Aging oj Wines 389 
at SO°C, are enough for complete destruction 
of all common enzymes and, as a result, mi­
croorganisms. Extrapolating back, if QJO were 
2, 3.2 hours at 20°C would destroy all enzymes 
regardless of initial concentration, and that is 
not true. 
Another example of a reaction not display­
ing a constant QJO of 2 would be one where 
the concentrations of reactants are affected. 
Gases like oxygen are more soluble in liquids 
including wine at lower temperatures and in­
creased gas pressure. Obviously, in such reac­
tions as oxidation by air the rate does not have 
a simple direct relationship between tempera­
ture and time. Nevertheless, the QIO = 2 con­
cept and, better yet, greater understanding of 
reaction kinetics gives valuable perspective and 
potential control of specific portions of the 
complex changes during aging. 
Maturation and aging involve quite a few 
reactions and a flux of decrease of some com­
ponents including desirable ones while others 
are forming. Suppose two desirable reactions 
A and B have respective measured tempera­
ture coefficients (QJO) of 1.S and 2.S in the 
wine cellar range of temperatures. Reaction B 
will be relatively enhanced as the temperature 
is raised. Both will be slowed by lower temper­
ature but A less so than B. If it is important to 
maintain a balance between the products of 
the two reactions and the resultant complexity 
in the wine, the temperature cannot be very 
warm. If it is important to have a reasonable 
rate and not prolong storage unreasonably, it 
cannot be very cold. Such considerations mili­
tate for a moderately low temperature for wine 
maturation and aging. Relatively brief periods 
of very low temperatures for special purposes 
such as removal of excess potassium bitartrate 
are appropriate, but do not accomplish much 
toward development of the wine. There is 
some anecdotal opinion that prolonged cold 
storage of bottled wine modifies flavor and 
prevents normal development later. Truly high 
temperatures must be avoided because flavor 
developments that are overpowering quickly 
result. Even baked wines like Madeiras and 
California baked sherries are generally consid-390 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
ered better following a longer period of less 
elevated temperature than shorter periods at 
high temperatures within the general range of 
35°C to 50°C and to about six months. Other 
wines kept too warm, especially if oxygen is 
available, quickly become changed in type and 
style to an unacceptable degree. They begin to 
resemble Madeiras and are said to be mader­
ized. 
Cooke and Berg (1971, 1984) surveying 
practices in California found cellar tempera­
tures for varietal white wines ranged from 7°C 
to 24°C averaging 16°C in 1971 and 13°C in 
1984 with a range of 7°C to 21°C. Similarly, in 
1971, varietal red table wine cellaring temper­
ature averaged 18°C with a lOoC to 24°C range 
and in 1984 averaged 15°C, with a range of 
7°C to 21°C. The trend downward in tempera­
tures from 1971 to 1984 reflects new recom­
mendations and experience gained. Probably 
no further drop but perhaps a narrowing of 
the range has occurred since 1984. Some dif­
ference in practice is likely in relation to the 
portion of the cellar contents in wood versus 
that in stainless steel. In stainless steel tanks 
one is likely to want to minimize change and 
may keep them cooler than barrels. Consider­
ing the range indicated of about l4°C and 
assuming normal temperature effects, six 
months in the warmest cellar might be equiva­
lent to about 17 months in the coolest. Never­
theless taking 13°C for white bulk storage and 
15°C for red as typical and about optimum, 
we can consider aging times as roughly com­
parable. 
Temperature for bottle aging (largely by 
customers) is generally recommended about 
13°C with a range from no lower than 10°C if 
a reasonable rate of development is desired to 
perhaps 20°C if you are impatient or getting 
old yourself. Constant temperature is desirable 
especially for bottle aging, to avoid pressure 
change and cork movement, but also in bulk 
to control headspace variation or possible 
overflow. If temperature fluctuates apprecia­
bly, as already explained, the warm periods 
will produce so much more effect that the 
expected timetable will need adjustment. If only the calendar is followed some wine may 
be overaged or spoiled. 
2. Aging Programs Considered Traditional 
or Typical for Wines of Various Types 
The particular program of maturation and 
aging chosen for a particular wine depends on 
the type of wine, the style within that type, the 
price category, and the marketing approach. 
By marketing approach we mean such factors 
as making wines with a proprietary name, non­
vintage blends, vintage-dated varietal wines, 
etc. These variables can apply in every type 
and most styles of wine. By style we mean such 
things as complex "dinner" wines at one ex­
treme versus more simple fresh "picnic" wines 
at the other. Stylish differences that distin­
guish one producer from another may exist 
within anyone type or class of wines whether 
these categories are traditional or legal classes. 
As an example, vintage-dated Sauvignon blanc 
wine could emphasize the grape aroma and 
fresh fruitiness on the "picnic" extreme and 
oak-matured complexity on the "dinner" ex­
treme of style. Examples of each extreme and 
intermediates are available on the market and 
meet the regulations without necessarily any 
special descriptions on the label. Of course, 
for reasons of economy as well as consumer 
attitudes the least expensive wines tend to 
have had the least maturation and aging. 
Wines made for rapid marketing and con­
sumption not only have had relatively little 
aging, but also might not respond well to 
aging in many cases for various reasons. Con­
versely' some wines made to be matured and 
aged would not show well if tasted too young. 
Since we are considering table wines as the 
most common and important class, maturation 
and aging of them will be emphasized and 
white versus red differences noted. Dessert 
wines have similar programs to table wines 
except longer extreme maturation and aging 
times. Specialty products such as wine coolers, 
blush and rose wines, and carbonic macera­
tion wines can be considered as like light dry 
wines with as little maturation or aging as possible. Vermouths would be generally like 
unflavored ports or muscatel in aging prac­
tices. This leaves the classes of sparkling and 
sherry-like wines as worth special comments. 
Sparkling wines are usually prepared from a 
blended cuvee of wines nominally like white 
table wines, although ordinarily from less ripe 
grapes higher in acidity, lower in pH, and 
lower in alcohol. This wine may well be from 
more than one vintage and thus have some 
maturation. Ordinarily but not invariably, de­
tectable flavor from maturation in small oak is 
avoided. This semifinished base wine, clarified 
and stabilized, is then refermented to give 
sparkling wine. From a maturation and aging 
viewpoint the period that the refermented 
wine is left on the yeast lees is considered 
significant. Cuvee aging and appreciable aging 
after separating the sparkling wine from the 
yeast are generally considered unnecessary or 
even detrimental. Certain producers might not 
agree and postdisgorging bottle-aged Cham­
pagnes were once a fad in England, but gener­
ally speaking, time on the yeast is the only 
stage of special interest during sparkling wine 
aging. A few months aging after disgorging, 
dosage and resealing can be necessary to set 
the shape of the cork, etc. 
The characteristic flavor changes are at­
tributed to yeast autolysis. The special flavor of 
aged-on-yeast sparkling wine can increase 
through at least five years on the yeast accord­
ing to a limited number we have tested. Most 
producers age from six months to a year be­
tween starting the refermentation and disgorg­
ing the wine. However, there is no specific 
regulation in the United States requiring such 
age. In France, Champagnes are aged one-year 
minimum and vintage ones three years. Other 
European sparkling wines, including Spanish 
Cavas, are mostly required to have a minimum 
of nine months age on the yeast. Producers 
fermenting sparkling wine in large tanks rather 
than in bottles do not usually age as long on 
the yeast, but may use stirring or other treat­
ments to hasten yeast autolysis. Such details 
tend to be proprietary and more discussion 
can await specialized treatment elsewhere. The Maturation and Aging of Wines 391 
Sherries and related wines are unusual from 
the maturation and aging viewpoint in that 
oxidation in one form or another is much 
more necessary and extensive than in other 
types of wines. The oxidation may be microbi­
ological as in the flor sherries, chemical reac­
tion with air as in oloroso-type sherries, a 
combination of the two as in amontillado types, 
and accelerated air oxidation by heating as in 
Madeira types including California baked 
sherries. Bottle aging, particularly for the 
fino-flor types, is undesirable in that it pro­
duces changes reverting the flavors away from 
oxidation. Also, associated with sherries be­
cause of its development in the Sherry districts 
of Spain is a maturation and fractional blend­
ing system we will refer to as the solera system. 
Sizable disquisitions have been written on 
the maturation, aging, and blending of 
sherry-type wines {e.g., Joslyn and Amerine 
(1964)). Almost all of the character and dif­
ferences among types of these wines result 
from the maturation processes and not from 
grape aromas or initial fermentation effects. 
Our discussion must be brief here. 
The production of flor sherries by sub­
merged aerobic yeast culture need not involve 
much time. The principle involves growing 
yeast throughout an aerated dry wine. The 
yeast converts some of the ethanol to acetalde­
hyde and produces additional flavor effects. 
The process used for traditional fino-type 
sherries, aerobic surface-film growth of yeast, 
is fairly slow and a considerable portion of the 
flavor may come from associated maturation 
effects. Two of these are flavor extraction from 
the oak containers and flavor effects from 
autolytic yeast breakdown. Although the yeast 
is unquestionably causing oxidation as shown 
by production of aldehydes from alcohol, the 
oxidation-reduction potential is low (reduced) 
and the wine color remains light under an 
intact, active yeast film. 
Manzanilla and other light fino types are 
the epitome of this style of sherry. Such wines 
of flor type may be matured under conditions 
such that the wine slowly gains in alcohol and 
no longer allows aerobic yeast growth, or alco-392 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
hoI could be added. In the traditional Spanish 
process, as the wine is passed along through 
the process for about four years, some of the 
yeast film falls and can autolyze and affect 
flavor. These flavor effects do not appear to 
have anything in common with sparkling wine 
flavors attributed to autolysis, but gradually 
contribute to more complex flavors evidently 
including nutty characteristics (although these 
also appear in nonflor sherries). 
Amontillado-type sherries are fino types 
aged longer after the film yeasts have largely 
finished. They can have more yeast autolysate, 
nuttiness, and darker amber color. They are, 
to some extent, intermediate in characteristics 
between fino and oloroso types having some of 
the character of both. Fino or oloroso sherries 
are selected for their further processing after 
the alcoholic fermentation. The sherry mate­
rial, shermat, for oloroso wines has or is forti­
fied to a higher alcohol level, about 18%, so 
that the yeast film does not grow. Fino sherries 
start in a fairly narrow range near 15-16% 
alcohol. The oloroso-type sherry is usually a 
darker amber wine. It may be sold sweet, but 
ordinarily is aged dry and then sweetened with 
an aged very sweet wine made for the purpose. 
All these wines must be in containers kept 
partly empty so that surface area is available 
for the aerobic yeast film (finos) and for oxy­
gen absorption from the air (olorosos). Table 
10-2, adapted from Martinez De La Ossa et al. 
(1987) shows typical processing conditions for 
traditional Spanish wines of these types. Note 
that total time suggested for the fino types is four years and for oloroso and amontillado 12 
years. Although solera systems can be of a 
various number of stages, capacities, and 
throughput rates, the ones they studied are 
representative. Each stage was composed of 
500 oak butts holding 600 L each. With the 
five stages, this totaled 2500 butts per solera 
system and they studied 20 such systems. If 
each butt was 80% full, each solera system 
would contain 1.2 million L of wine with, at 
equilibrium for the flor type, an annual input 
of one-fifth that total and a similar draw off for 
sale, minus evaporative and handling losses. A 
five-stage system and four years' aging requires 
fivefold inventory to shipment ratio and more 
stages or slower throughput would require 
even more. 
The operation of the solera fractional aging 
and blending system is more subtle and has 
more effects than might be immediately per­
ceived over and above providing time and 
conditions for long bulk aging. The solera 
system or modifications of it have been used 
for other wines, notably port and older red 
table wines. If it is used for table wines, efforts 
such as keeping the containers full are neces­
sary to prevent excessive oxidation as well as 
aerobic microbial growth including film yeasts. 
Note (Table 10-2) that estimated residence 
time in each stage from the youngest nursery 
stage (third criadera in these examples) to the 
final solera stage is equal, i.e., 0.75 years for 
the fino types and two years for the amontil­
lado and oloroso types. The apparent age that 
results for the oloroso is 12 years and for 
Table 10·2. Average estimated cumulative aging time (in years) for each stage and type of sherry 
(Martinez De La Ossa et aI. 1987). 
No. 
2 
3 
4 
5 Stage 
Name 
Sobretablas 
Allada 
Third criadera 
Second criadera 
First criadera 
Solera Aging 
Fino Manzanilla Oloroso 
1.00 1.00 
4 
1.75 1.75 6 
2.50 2.50 8 
3.25 3.25 10 
4.00 4.00 12 
* For the Amontillado, the first four years corresponds to biological aging in a fino system. Amontillado 
6 
8 
10 
12 amontillado 16 years. There are three key 
principles in properly operating a solera-type 
system: (1) Each container in each stage is 
never completely emptied, maximum removal 
at anyone time is about 25% or less; (2) when 
wine is withdrawn from the final (solera) stage 
it is replenished by an equal amount of wine 
from the next younger stage in that particular 
solera system, and so on throughout the stages; 
and (3) when wine is drawn from each con­
tainer of the next younger stage, some of that 
wine is placed in proportion in all of the 
containers of the older stage. In old practice 
wine drawn from each container was specifi­
cally distributed to every one of the next older 
stage's containers. The same objective can be 
reached by mixing all the wine drawn from 
the younger stage and then adding the appro­
priate volume of this blend to each container 
of the next older stage. This requires consid­
erable, but less labor and close attention than 
the old process. 
To illustrate briefly, suppose one of the fino 
soleras previously described (Martinez De La 
Ossa et al. 1987) was tapped only once per 
0.75 years for 100 L/butt (one-fifth of con­
tents). The removed wine would be combined 
and bottled for sale. The first criadera stage 
(next youngest) would be drawn down 100 
L/butt, the 50,000 L mixed, and the solera 
stage replenished 100 L/butt to its original 
level. Similarly the second criadera would re­
plenish the first, the third criadera would re­
plenish the second, and finally the youngest 
sobretabelas wine would replenish the third 
criadera. Note that, with the figures given, no 
wine in the solera could be less than four years 
old. But, with continued operation and con­
sidering the butts are never more than frac­
tionally emptied, some of the wine in each 
stage except sobretablas would be in fact older 
than the indicated age. A few drops would be 
as old as the start of the solera. Obviously 
vintage dates are not appropriate on such 
wines, but sometimes the starting date of that 
particular solera system is noted. Baker et al. 
(I952) developed the mathematics of the pro­
cess and showed that after about 15 years or The Maturation and Aging of Wines 393 
more of operation and 25% annual with­
drawal from the final stage a constant average 
age is reached of about eight years for a four­
stage system, 10 years for five stages, 12 years 
for six stages, and nearly 14 years for seven 
stages. 
The solera system has disadvantages of the 
large stocks required, costly labor, the risks 
involved in long storage, and the fact that if 
one barrel develops a bad microbial contami­
nant it can be spread to all barrels of subse­
quent stages. Nevertheless it has great advan­
tages because differences between vintages are 
smoothed, a relatively constant composition, 
and a constant average age are achieved. These 
advantages can be achieved during maturation 
in stainless steel containers as well as wooden 
ones. 
Coming back to what is being done gener­
ally for typical wines in California, the best 
available surveys are those by Cooke and Berg 
(I 971, 1973, 1984). They show that practices 
vary greatly by producer, by variety of grape, 
and by price range and producing area (Ta­
bles lO-3, 10-4, lO-5). In view of this variation 
and considering that successful wineries can 
have very different aging programs for a given 
type of wine, it does not seem particularly 
useful to consider averages. Table 10-6 makes 
an effort to suggest recommendable ranges 
under modern economic conditions. 
C. BULK MATURATION -VARIABLES, 
CHEMISTRY AND QUALITY EFFECTS 
1. Containers for Maturation in Bulk 
A cooper is one who makes or repairs wooden 
casks or tubs and cooperage is his products or 
his shop. By extension, all winery tanks, vats, 
and barrels are called cooperage whether or 
not made of wood. A wine container ideally 
would be impervious, inert, durable, strong, 
easy to clean, easy to maintain, convenient, 
and cheap. It should impart no flavors or the 
imparted flavors should be desirable. Obvi­
ously, some compromises may need to be 394 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
Table 10-3. Nonvarietal (generic) table wine storage practices. 
Capacity (1000 gal.) Time stored 
(months) Winery Redwood Stainless stell 
A 18 
B 100-600 
C 50 130 
0 5-28 8-340 
E 6-1,200 
F 0.5-25 1-30 
G 9-125 
H 10-200 
I 0.5-50 7-140 
J 4-195 
aShipped as soon as possible. 
Source: Adapted from Cooke and Berg (I973). 
made. A wooden barrel can impart desirable 
flavor and is therefore not inert, for example, 
nor is it easy to clean if contaminated. A new 
200-L barrel of European oak may cost more 
than $400. It may be found to be nearly ex­
hausted of direct flavor contribution by four 
cycles of use and need replacement. Each of 
the 800 L of wine so matured must bear its 
share of the barrel cost at $0.50/L. Hardly 
cheap, this is nearly half or more of the cost of 
the premium grapes required to make the 
WIne. 
Container materials that have been used for 
bulk storage of wine include ceramics, con­
crete, metals, wood, and, in more recent times, 
plastics. Without going into the engineering 
aspects, relative general utility and costs, there 
are a few comments necessary from the view­
point of container use for maturation. Plastics 
such as fiberglass polystyrene tanks pass light 
that can effect wine detrimentally. They may, 
if not especially freed of them, contribute 
monomers of the plastic itself or extractable 
plasticizers. Some plastics transmit oxygen 
rather readily, polyethylene for example, al­
though it does not need plasticizers and may 
be useful for brief storage. Concrete can be 
used if properly coated with wax or other 
impervious coating, but it can give calcium 
and other minerals to the acidic wine, which 
erodes it. Lined steel 
300-600 
110-640 
6-1,200 
125-600 
300-600 
185 Concrete 
40-95 
65 
30-100 1-4 
0.3-9 
10-18 
6-18 
0.3-12 
3-24 
10 
6-12 
Mild steel tanks and fittings similarly con­
tribute iron to wine. Ferrous or ferric ions 
catalyze seriously undesirable reactions in 
wine. Brass and copper contribute undesirable 
copper ions that will cause ills in wines at even 
lower levels than iron. This leaves stainless 
steels and wooden containers as most useful 
for modern wine storage and maturation. 
Table 10-7 (1988 Wine 1989) shows 1988 
data on storage cooperage in California. There 
has been a continuing rise in the proportion 
of stainless steel as well as the total capacity of 
cooperage over the last two decades. Concrete 
usage has fallen drastically (32% of total 
cooperage in 1966) and will continue to do so, 
as probably will use of coated mild steel. Oak 
has risen again in recent years, but other woods 
(nearly all redwood, Sequoia sempervirens, in 
California) have fallen. Oak will probably re­
main a relatively small but important part of 
the total cooperage capacity, reserved mostly 
for Chardonnay and varietal red table wines. 
Considering usual practices of keeping the 
tanks full and/or the headspace blanketed 
with nitrogen or carbon dioxide to exclude 
air, storage in stainless steel can be considered 
inert except for the effects of time and the 
continuation of reactions already in progress. 
Large metal tanks are commonly insulated by 
thick external layers of polyurethane foam. 
The contents are refrigerated to a proper cel-~ 
~ Table 10-4. Aging months of varietal white table wines by variety, container type", and winery. b 
Variety A B C D E 
Chardonnay K6S12-1S KS-sc K4-5 KR6f K6S2 
Chenin blanc S6-1S KS6d S5-12 R6 SI-7 
Colombard S6-1S KS6 d S5-12 R6 SI-7 
Grey Riesling KS6d R2-3S1-12 
Gewiirztraminer S6-IS S9 R2-3S1-12 R6 SI-7 
Sauvignon blanc K6S12-IS KS12 c K4-5 KR6' K2S2 
Semillon S6-1S KS12 e R6 SI-7 
Sylvaner S6-IS KS6d R6 SI-7 
White Riesling S6-IS KSSd R2-4S2-12 R6 
Rose S6-IS S9 R6 SI-7 
aK = oak barrels or casks; R = redwood tanks; S = stainless steel tanks. 
bCellar temperatures ranged from 7°C to 21°C, with a mean of 13°C. 
"95% in oak. 
d90% in stainless steel. 
"80% in oak. 
f 70% redwood. 
K75% in oak 
h3()"50% in oak, 100% in stainless steel. 
;50% in oak . 
.i85% in stainless steel. 
k95% in stainless steel. 
'75% in stainless steel. 
11170% in stainless steel. 
"80% in stainless steel. 
"3()..70% in oak. 
Source: Adapted from Cooke and Berg (1984). Winery 
F G H 
K9S3 g K3S6h KSIO-14; 
K2S6d KS6-12; 
KS3-12 k 
K2S6d KS4-IO' 
S6 KS3-12m 
K9S5" K3S6 k KSS-16; 
KS6-16; 
KIS9d KS3-S; 
SIO S6 KS4-12; 
SS S5 KS4-12n J 
K6S4 
S4 
KSS4 
S4 
S4 K 
KS-SS7-14 
S6-12 
KlS6-12 
S6-12 
S6-12 
KI-2S6-1O 
S6-12 S6-12 
S6-12 
S6-12 L M 
KS6° K6-9S3-6 
S4 S6-9 
S4 
K6S6 
S4 
S6-9 P 
K3 
S3-6 
S3-6 
S3-6 
S3-6 
K3 
S3-6 
S3-6 
S3-6 
S3-6 Q R 
KS6 g KS12 g 
S6 
S6 
S3 
S6 T 
K9 
K6 
K3S3 KS7-Sm K9 
S6 S6 S3 KS6 g 
S6 1.>0 
<C 
c=> 
Table 10-5_ Aging years of varietal red table wines by variety, container type', and wineryb_ 
Variety A B D E 
Barbera W2-3 W3c 
CabernetSau~gnon W2-3 WS2-3c W2.5f WI-3 
Gamay Beaujolais WI-2 WSO.25-0.5d W2 W1.5-2.5 
Napa Gamay W1.5-2 
Pinot noir WI-2 WS2< W2f WSI-2 
Peti te Sirah W2-3 WS2c W2.5 WSI-3 
Zinfandel W2-3 WS2< WI-3 WSI-3 
aW = oak barrels or casks or redwood tanks. S = stainless steel tanks. 
"Cellar temperatures ranged from 7° to 21°C with a mean of 15°C. 
'W90%, SI0%. 
dW10 %, S90%. 
"Old American oak barrels. 
"Start in larger containers until after nlalolactic fermentation. 
g90% in wood 42 months, 10% in stainless steel 6 months. 
hSO% in wood, 20% in stainless steel. 
'75% in wood, 25% in stainless steel. 
i95% in wood, 5% in stainless steel. 
k50% in wood. 
Source: Adapted from Cooke and Berg (1984). Winery 
F H J 
WS4 g WS2 i WS2 
WSO.3-0.6; 
WS3 h WSO.5-0.6; 
WS4 g WSO.6-1.5 i 
WSO.5-1.5 i 
WS3; WSO.6-1.5 i WS1.5 K M N Q R S T 
WS2-2.5 WI.3-1.6 W1.5 WS3 WS1.5h W1.6-2 W1.6-2 
SO.5 
S1.5 WSO.5-2 WI 
WS2 WO.8-1 WI-1.25 WS3 WSO.6f W1.25-2 
WS3 WS3 WS1.5h W1.8-2.2 W1.6-2 
WS1.5 WO.6-1 WO.8-1.25 WS3 W1.5 WI-1.3 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 397 
Table 10-6. Wine types-Estimated typical or recommendable aging regimes. 
White Table 
Dry 
Sweet 
Red table 
Dry 
Sweet 
Port 
Ruby 
Tawny 
Vintage 
Muscatel 
Sherry 
Flor 
Amontillado 
Oloroso 
Madeira light 
robust 
light 
robust 
light 
robust 
(baked sherry) Barrel Bottle 
0 O? 
0-6 months 4 years 
0 O? 
6 months 4-10 years 
0-6 months 0-12 months 
3 years 10 years 
1 + year 5 + years 
0-2 years 0-2 + years 
4+ years 0-2 
6 months-2 years 10 + years 
1-10 years 0+ 
1-3 + (used) 0-
3 + (used) 0+ 
1-3 + years 0+ 
0-3 years 0+ 
(35°-50°, 6 months-3 months) 
Sparkling wine 
Cuvee 
Bulk 
Bottle Fermented 
lar temperature and, even outside in direct 
summer sunlight without further cooling, tem­
perature rise should be only of the order of 
O.5°C/month. Different formulations of stain­
less steel may be used (see Appendix C), but 0-12 months 
0-12 months o 
1-3 + years, O? 
beware of salvaged tanks from older dairies. 
They may be Monel metal which, owing to 
copper content, is injurious to wine. Although 
both are vulnerable to pitting by S02' type 316 
stainless steel is more resistant than type 304. 
Table 10-7. Winery storage cooperage in California, December 31, 1988 
Total Stainless Other Other 
cooperage steel metal Oak wood Concrete Other 
California (ML) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) (%) 
North Coast 496 64.2 1.0 19.8 10.6 1.5 3.0 
Sierra Foothills 6 58.3 0.0 26.7 11.4 0.0 3.5 
Central Coast 290 68.5 2.2 9.1 19.1 0.8 0.3 
Sacramento Valley 14 27.7 0.1 5.8 5.9 59.2 1.4 
North San Joaquin Valley 1591 54.1 38.2 1.7 2.3 3.8 0.0 
South San Joaquin Valley 1536 51.6 34.4 0.2 2.9 10.8 0.1 
Southern California 24 39.9 3.3 3.9 33.8 19.0 0.0 
Total 3957 55.3 29.0 4.0 5.0 6.3 0.4 
Source: 1988 Wine Industry Statistical Report. San Francisco, Wine Institute. 398 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
Chlorine cleaning solutions can cause pitting 
and eventual leakage. 
Properly cared for, stainless steel tanks and 
others lined with inert materials are excellent 
containers for wine during maturation stor­
age. They don't contribute directly or indi­
rectly to good or bad changes in the wine, and 
can last indefinitely. Wooden containers, how­
ever, certainly may contribute to flavor 
changes. They are discussed in detail in Sec­
tion 10.D. The best internal coatings for wine 
tanks of mild or carbon steel are epoxy formu­
lations or glass linings. They can be just as 
satisfactory as stainless steel. However, the 
coating must be thorough and continuous 
without skips, dings, cracks, crazing, or other 
damage. As stainless steel has become avail­
able and prices per unit contents have 
dropped, new and replacement winery 
cooperage has usually been of this, if metallic. 
Recent cost for large-sized stainless steel wine 
tanks has been of the order of $0.30/L of 
contents. The price increases per liter as the 
tank size decreases because of fittings being a 
larger part of the total, greater metal surface 
per unit volume, and other factors. 
2. Additional Variables and Reactions of 
Maturation 
In addition to conditions already cited, (time­
temperature, container material, stratification) 
agitation and evaporation can be significant 
physical variables. Evaporation will increase 
the concentration of all nonvolatiles in the 
remaining wine. Although all volatiles will de­
crease in amount as they evaporate, their con­
centration and relative concentration in wine 
will depend on their volatility relative to each 
other and to water. Evaporation of water will 
increase the color and taste intensity of the 
wine, but aroma is likely to decrease and will 
change. Agitation can make differences as 
mentioned earlier regarding stratification as 
oxidation (or evaporation, etc.) occurs from 
the top down. Adsorption, precipitation, and 
reaction can be encouraged as stirring obvi­
ates the long diffusion paths of dilute solu-tions. Agitation appears unlikely to have much 
effect during bottle aging, with the possible 
exception of inhibiting agglomeration and 
precipitation. Evaporation is essentially limited 
to the bulk maturation period, unless bottle 
closures fail. 
Some chemical reactions are completed 
during maturation (e.g., volatile aroma ester 
hydrolysis), some require conditions absent af­
ter bottling (e.g., oak extraction, oxidation), 
and some continue during both phases (e.g., 
tartaric acid esterification). Several of these 
reactions are discussed more fully in other 
sections. The focus will be upon effects, partic­
ularly sensory ones, known to be important to 
wine characteristics. 
An illustrative reaction is that of hydrolysis 
of odorous (volatile) esters. Such esters are 
present as part of the volatiles of all grapes 
and young wines from them. If small enough 
and sufficiently low in polarity to be apprecia­
bly volatile they are all odorous and almost all 
have pleasant, fruity odors. Fermentation of 
clarified musts at a low temperature gives white 
or blush wines with a characteristic fermenta­
tion bouquet consisting of esters. Since the 
acids that lead to volatile esters are low in 
wines as are the alcohols except for ethanol, 
the equilibria favor hydrolysis (Ramey and 
Ough 1980). Fermentation bouquet does not 
survive bulk storage unless the wines are kept 
cold. Several days or a few weeks at room 
temperature cause the complete loss of this 
special and pleasant characteristic bouquet. 
This is a proven example of wines that are said 
to not travel well. If a winemaker wishes to 
market such a product, it probably can only be 
done at the winery or a few nearby outlets 
willing to keep the wine continuously cold 
until actually consumed. In such instances 
maturation and aging are minimized to as 
near zero as possible, rather than accentuated. 
Conversely, the esterification of tartaric acid 
to ethyl bitartrate (and similar reactions for 
malic, lactic, or succinic acids) proceeds slowly 
with time. Because the ethanol and tartaric 
acid precursors are high in concentration in 
wines the reaction proceeds to equilibrium at a significant level of ethyl bitartrate. The reac­
tion rate is enhanced by high tartaric acid, 
low pH, and high ethanol concentration 
(Edwards et al. 1985). Because the hydrolysis 
rate is about as rapid as the esterification rate, 
it takes a long time for a wine to reach equilib­
rium (Table 10-8). The ethyl bitartrate has no 
direct effect on flavor but the 1.5 giL or so 
formed decreases the sensory tartness of the 
wine. This is particularly important because it 
is best for wines that are to be stored a long 
time to have a low pH and high acidity. If they 
did not mellow in this way they would remain 
too tart. 
D. WOODEN COOPERAGE 
The nature, use, and effects of wooden 
cooperage are so complex that they require 
further amplification. Maturation in wooden 
containers has three effects not available when 
stainless steel alone is used: extractives are 
furnished from the wood to the wine, evapora­
tion occurs through the wood, and because 
evaporation produces ullage, air contact and 
oxidation may be encouraged. All of these are 
surface related and, therefore, the shape and 
size of the wooden container have roles. The Maturation and Aging of Wines 399 
1. Shape 
For a given volume, a sphere has the smallest 
surface of any geometrical shape. A cube has 
about 124% of the surface of an equal volume 
sphere, a cylinder twice as tall as its diameter 
about 120%, and a barrel about 108% calcu­
lated as an ellipsoid with cut-off ends or 110% 
as two frustums base to base. This frustum is a 
right circular cone with the point sliced off 
parallel to the base. By either model (and the 
truncated ellipsoid is usually slightly more pre­
cise), a barrel is a near approach to a sphere 
and quite economical of surface per unit con­
tents. A simple method to estimate the surface 
of a barrel is to compute the surface for a 
sphere of the same volume and multiply by 
1.08. To hasten maturation more surface per 
liter would be desired, but for practical engi­
neering reasons the barrel shape was chosen. 
The double arch gives not only an easily rolled 
shape but also a very strong one. The hoops 
can be driven down to squeeze the staves 
together and tighten them around the heads. 
A good barrel does not leak even though the 
staves just butt together without tenons or 
glue. No other shape accomplishes these things 
so well. Upright wooden tanks generally have 
straight staves, but are shaped like a single 
frustum for similar reasons. A great deal of 
Table 10-8. Estimated equilibrium concentration of ethyl acid tartrate in various wines and the necessary aging time 
to reach it. 
pH 
(Temperature 34°e) 
2.91 
3.25 
3.67 
Temperature 
(pH 3.2) 
13.2°e (55.S0F) 
34.0oe (93.2°F) 
4S.0oe (llS.4°F) Tablewine" 
Ethylacid 
tartrate 
(mg/L) 
1650 
1130 
550 
14S0 
1490 
1500 
aConditions: 12% ethanol. 6 giL tartaric acid. 
bConditions: 6 giL tartaric acid. 
Source: Edwards et al. (1985). Time 
(years) 
2.5 
3.0 
3.1 
13.5 
4.0 
1.7 IS% alcohol model solutionb 
Ethylacid 
pH tartrate Time 
(Temperature 34°e) (mg/L) (years) 
2.92 2700 3.3 
4.10 400 29.0 
Temperature 
(pH 3.2) 
we (93.2°F) 2700 7.1 
4soe (llS.4 OF) 2240 1.6 400 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
artisan know-how has gone into the develop­
ment of wooden barrels, casks, and tanks, 
reaching back to Roman times in essentially 
the same form we have today. 
2. Size of Container 
For any given shape and barrels in particular, 
the larger the container the smaller the con­
tainer surface per unit of contents. This sur­
face-to-volume ratio is a key factor in all those 
important maturation effects which depend 
on surface (Singleton 1974). If the volume of a 
barrel decreases by a factor of 10, the surface 
per liter increases about twofold. If the volume 
increases WOO-fold, the surface per liter de­
creases to exactly 0.1 as much. This means that 
if three years in a 200-L barrel is considered 
optimum for a given wine, one would need 
one and one-half years but 10 times as many 
20-L barrels or 30 years if a 200,000-L cask was 
used. No doubt results of unrecorded trials in 
the dim past as well as such matters as conve­
nience of manhandling have led to about 200 
L being the best compromise between too 
many barrels and maximum surface per liter 
for fastest maturation. Approximately this size 
has become standard in all areas for red table 
wine and most aged spirits; slightly larger was 
often preferred for wines that were soon 
overo~ked or those that were stored for very 
long tImes. At 200 L there is about 90 cm 2 of 
surface per L in a barrel. 
Inert containers like stainless steel are less 
costly per unit of contents the larger they are. 
Of course, a winemaker needs the number 
and sizes of cooperage necessary to keep the 
required wines segregated and unblended 
during preparation and maturation. Many 
small stainless steel containers are generally 
too expensive and historically were unavail­
able. Barrels at 200 L are convenient for seg­
regation of small lots. 
3. Type of Wood, Composition, Sensory 
Effect 
Many different woods have been used for 
liquid-tight cooperage (Singleton 1974), but for wine barrels only white oak is widely used 
today. Chestnut is suitable but more porous 
and not widely available. Most other woods are 
not as suitable. For large sizes, white oak is still 
the preferred wood. California redwood, cer­
tain eucalyptus, and a few other species have 
been used for very large wine tanks. Some 
continue to be used, but extractives from these 
woods do not have attractive flavors in concen­
trated form so that favorable results in wine 
maturation depend on either such large size 
or such long use that extractives are not 
appreciable. 
White oak heartwood is preferred for bar­
rels because of especially favorable natural 
wood structure as well as pleasant but not 
especially distinctive or strong-flavored extrac­
tives. Softwoods are not very suitable for tight 
barrels. They often are poorly bendable, have 
narrow medullary rays and, except for red­
wo?d, generally have low extractives or give 
resmous flavors. This is not necessarily bad, 
retsina is pine resin-flavored Greek wine, but 
tends to overpower other wine flavors. Among 
hardwoods, oaks have several advantages. They 
have the widest medullary rays. These rays 
form a radius of the trunk parallel to the 
ground and serve as conduction tissue be­
tween the inside and outside tissues. Rays make 
up about 30% of the volume of Quercus alba 
wood, and only 15% in most other hardwoods 
8% in conifers. Oak wood is strong, durable: 
and bendable to make the bilge of the barrel. 
Oaks are ring-porous having large pores in the 
spring wood paralleling the trunk, but in white 
oaks suitable for cooperage these pores are 
plugged by tyloses as the sapwood changes to 
heartwood (Figure 10-1). If this fails to hap­
pen, the barrel will leak from the ends of that 
stave. 
All species of oak do not form tyloses and 
those which do not (those outside the white 
oak, leucobalanus subgroup) would not be 
suitable for barrels (Singleton 1974). Also, for 
barrels, one needs large, straight-grained trees. 
Scrubb,Y or crooked trees, whether by species 
or habItat, would not be suitable. For barrels, 
Quercus (oak) species used in North America The Maturation and Aging of Wines 401 
Fig. 10-1. Microscopic views of white oak heartwood showing (Jeft) a section of an annual ring with the ring-porous 
spring or early wood in the upper right and the much less porous summer wood in the forward part of the horizontal 
section. A multiserate medullary ray is emphasized in the right front of the vertical portion. A large heartwood pore 
or vessel is (right) blocked by tyloses. The photomicrographs were graciously supplied by Dr. B. G. Butterfield of the 
Department of Plant and Microbial Sciences, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand. 
include Q. alba and possibly six others of lesser 
importance, prinus, bieolor, muehlenbergii, stel­
lata, macrocarpa, and lyrata. In Europe and the 
Near East coopers oaks are considered Q. robur 
or peduneulata and Q. sessilis, but several other 
minor species might be used (Singleton 1974). 
Each species has preferred growing conditions 
so that several mayor may not be found in the 
same area. If they do occur in the same vicin­
ity they seem to interbreed readily. A particu­
lar tree may not be a textbook example of a 
single species. Botanists have trouble in firm 
identification, and loggers more so. In fact, 
some botanists lump both major European 
cooperage oaks into a single species Q. petraea. 
At least by studies so far reported, the dif­
ferent species of oak, even American vs. Euro­
pean, differ in amounts and relative amounts 
of important extractives rather than by having 
unique chemical components of significance. 
The quantitative differences are large, how­
ever, between European and North American 
cooperage oak. Average solids extractable by 
aqueous alcohol from dry wood was 6.4% for North American and 10.4% for European 
samples (Singleton 1974). Similarly, each gram 
of extracted solid averaged 365 mg (CAE) of 
phenols for the American and 561 mg (CAE) 
for the European. 
European oak barrels can be expected (new 
and untreated) to contribute nearly double 
the solids (I 60%) and more than double 
(250%) the phenols as compared to American 
oak barrels of the same size (Singleton 1974). 
It is fortunate that a 200-L barrel has generally 
over 30 individual pieces of wood. In the 
course of barrel production these are certain 
to represent different parts of a tree and usu­
ally several different trees so that each barrel 
is a fairly random wood sample. This is impor­
tant for some uniformity among barrels be­
cause there is a large difference in composi­
tion within the heartwood of anyone tree. If 
tree age, site, and growth rate differ there is 
further often great tree-to-tree variation. For 
this reason it is very difficult to obtain the 
same characteristics for barrels from subse­
quent years even if the forest area is specified. 402 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
The specific plot logged must differ year by 
year, since it takes on the order of 100 years to 
mature a cooperage oak tree. 
The content of extractables is higher at the 
base of the tree than at the top and consider­
ably higher in the heartwood nearest the sap­
wood compared to the center of the tree. 
Individual stave and heading pieces obviously 
represent a specific location within a tree and 
can differ in analysis by a factor of two- to 
threefold in solids or phenols. Rapidly grow­
ing oak trees are better for liquid retention 
when made into barrels, but slower-growing 
ones (more annual rings per cm of tree ra­
dius) are higher in extractives (Singleton 1974). 
Sensory threshold effects on wine differ by 
stave roughly in proportion to its extractable 
solids. As a general estimate about 500 mg of 
typical dry oak wood will produce a flavor 
threshold detectable difference when ex­
tracted into a liter of wine. This can range 
from about 200 mgjL for light white table 
wine to about 800 mgjL for heavy port. Inter­
estingly, the amount of new, untreated wood 
to produce a detectable flavor difference is 
about the same for American or for European 
oak. This is attributed to the fact that the 
European oak contains double the less flavor­
ful carbohydrates and tannins while American 
oak contains more volatile odorants. European 
oak also gives more brown color to the wine 
and is historically more likely to have been 
toasted. 
Measurement of the depth of penetration 
of wine into the staves from old barrels shows 
that 6 mm is not unusual. Calculating from an 
average density of dry oak of 0.85 gj cm3 this 
would equal 45.9 gjL (0.6 X 90 X 0.85) of 
oak extracted or roughly 100 X threshold in a 
200-L barrel. The barrel could be filled and 
emptied with 20,000 L of wine and, if timing 
was just right, all this wine flavored to a barely 
detectable level (Singleton 1974). Analysis of 
the wine itself has indicated up to the equiva­
lent of 15.5 g of dry oak (31 X threshold) may 
be extracted in one year in a new European 
oak barrel. Subsequent refillings of the same 
barrel decrease the extractives on the order of half, or require twice as long for similar ex­
traction (Singleton 1974; Rous and Alderson 
1983). However, as the extraction continues, 
American and European barrels become more 
similar and the effect on wine continues to be 
appreciable if time is long enough even with 
well-used barrels. 
The nonvolatile extract includes hemicellu­
lose fragments and wood sugars like xylose, 
lignin fragments, and lignans (Dada et al. 
1989), and ellagitannins (Quinn and Singleton 
1985; Herve du Penhoat et al. 1991). The 
odorous components include vanillin and re­
lated compounds particularly syringaldehyde 
and sinapaldehyde, oak lactone (trans-4-hy­
droxy-3-methyloctanoic-y-Iactone) (Kepner et 
al. 1972), furfurals (Nabeta et al. 1986), and 
isoprenoids (Sefton et al. 1990). 
About 90% of the oak phenols are non­
flavonoid in nature, ellagitannins are by far 
the major contributors (Singleton 1974). Since 
wines not aged in oak are low and fairly con­
stant in nonflavonoid phenols, it is possible to 
analyze for increases in nonflavonoid phenols 
and equate that with oak extraction (Singleton 
et al. 1971). Like other tannins, ellagitannins 
are astringent and precipitate with proteins. 
They can augment red wine astringency, add 
some to white wines, and help remove pro­
teins to stabilize white wines. At 500 mg of dry 
wood per liter of wine, American oak would 
be expected to contribute about 30 mg of 
extracted solids and about 8 mg of gallic acid 
equivalent (GAE) phenol. Similarly, European 
oak should yield about 50 mg of extracted 
solids and 26 mg GAE of total phenoljL. 
The nature of the extract changes some­
what with the alcohol content. It is maximum 
at about 55% ethanol by volume, the tradi­
tional barreling proof for spirits (Singleton 
and Draper 1961). The ratio of substances 
extracted by high ethanol content is somewhat 
different from that extracted by water or table 
wine. Water extracts the more soluble carbo­
hydrates and tannins; alcohol the more hy­
drophobic lignin fragments. The extraction 
rate is rapid, being essentially complete, as far 
as extractants not requiring reaction, by one week at room temperature (Singleton and 
Draper 1961) when shavings 1 mm or less 
thick are being extracted. In the barrel, since 
only one face can be contacted, the extraction 
rate should be half (i.e., twice as long) for the 
first mm and progressively slower the deeper 
into the wood and/or the larger the molecule 
being extracted. Nevertheless, wine in new 
barrels should be tested early and frequently 
to be sure it's removed before extract content 
becomes excessive. Of course, deliberately high 
oakiness in one portion of wine can be a very 
useful blending stock. 
4. Coopering, Specifications 
Considerable effort has been made to identify 
areas in Europe, and less in the United States, 
from whence to draw cooperage wood. While 
real differences can be identified when given 
shipments are compared, for reasons discussed 
above it does not seem worth too much em­
phasis because shipments in later years will 
certainly reflect different woodland areas even 
if the same region is specified. Furthermore, 
SOL T IBOLE SECTION. QUARTERED 
Splits para lIel to 
Rays (tree radius) The Maturation and Aging of Wines 403 
there is no way to be sure such specifications 
are met except the reliability of and confi­
dence in the cooper supplying the barrels. It is 
recommended that winemakers regularly 
needing barrels develop a mutual understand­
ing with their suppliers. 
On the other hand, with close inspection of 
barrels before acceptance and experience with 
products from a given cooperage a number of 
potential problems or differences can be un­
derstood. The width of a stave or piece of 
heading must be parallel to a radius of the 
tree in order to place the medullary rays tan­
gential to the surface of the barrel (Figure 
10-2). This accomplishes two things: the rays 
are opposed to the diffusion of wine through 
the sides of the barrel and the difference in 
dimension between dry and wet staves is mini­
mized. The change in length (along the wood 
grain) between fully expanded by moisture 
and dry wood is only about 0.2%. Stave width 
changes more (along the rays, this change is 
about 4%, but thickness is about 8%). Even 
4% is considerable and if a soaked-tight barrel 
QUARTER SAWN STAVE 
"Parallel" to split face (ALL 
(Width" Radius) HEARTWOOD) 
STAVE, % SHRINK AS DRY· Width 4, Thickne .. e, Length 0.2, Volume 13 
Fig. 10-2. Stave orientation in a properly quartered bolt. 404 The Maturation and Aging of Wine!' 
is 250 cm around the bilge there could be a 
total of 100cm gap between the staves when it 
is dried out. The importance of keeping bar­
rels humidified to avoid leaks is obvious, as is 
the fact that staves not properly quartered will 
give even greater risks. 
Quartering involves the splitting or sawing 
of the staves from a face of a tree trunk section 
split into quarters. This places the stave width 
on a radius of the tree. Quartersawing can be 
done sloppily whereas splitting can only be 
done along a radius. If both are done properly 
there should be little or no difference and 
sawing is more economical of wood and of 
labor. One reason only trees 45 cm in diame­
ter or larger should be used is the excessive 
wastage and difficulty of ray placement on the 
stave width with smaller trees. Inspection of 
the stave ends in a barrel will detect whether 
or not the rays parallel the width of the stave. 
A minimum of three rays should go from edge 
to edge of each stave. Proper quartering places the annual rings 
at right angles to the width of the stave or 
heading pieces. The rate of tree growth can be 
evaluated by annual ring width. Staves (and 
heading) should be free of sapwood which is 
low in extractives and lacks tyloses. It may be 
detected by its lighter color. Look for it at the 
widest edge of the staves. 
Stave and heading pieces are ordinarily cut, 
stacked, and aged to dry slowly. It is generally 
agreed that the staves should not be used 
sooner than six months to a year, else exces­
sive warping and green flavors may result. A 
100-year-old tree is likely to have 10 to 15 years 
of living sapwood, but the heartwood is formed 
and filled with extractables as the xylem dies. 
Thus, the extractives in the middle of the tree 
have been reacting and aging for 85 to 90 
years. 
The staves in the setup barrel are heated 
either over a fire or by steaming so that they 
can be windlassed and trussed to the familiar 
BUNGHOLE 
BUNG STAVE -----,~"5o_"'-.".c.7>'C;;;",. 
.----HEAD HOOP QUARTER HOOP ___ , .... 
STAVE JOINT---+~-++--4""" 
\~---CHIME 
BILGE HOOP --~ ..... -.+-+--- CANT 
---;-++---- HEAD 
;..,A'------ CROZE 
STAVE JOINT BETWEEN 
HEAD SECTIONS 
Fig. 10-3. Terminology of barrel parts. barrel shape, smaller at both ends than in the 
middle. They are usually heated again after 
bending to help relieve the strain and mini­
mize cracking at the bilge. If open fire is used, 
the inside of the barrel may be scorched 
(toasted) to a variable degree. This toasting 
modifies the surface extractables and may im­
part desired complexity or, if overdone, con­
tribute smoky, bacon-like flavors detectable in 
wine. Different winemakers for different wines 
may prefer no, light, medium, or heavy toast­
ing. European barrels have traditionally been 
fired and North American ones steamed, both 
have given good results depending upon the 
circumstances. Current practice involves speci­
fied levels of toasting for both types. 
The hoops are today made of iron and to 
minimize rusting are often galvanized. The 
number and arrangement of the hoops are 
variables that may be significant in mainte­
nance and repair of barrels, but do not have 
bearing on the maturation effect on the wine. 
Other details as well, such as how the heads 
are fitted to the croze or how much chime 
overhangs the heads (Figure 10-3) can be fac­
tors in handling barrels and cellar appear­
ance, but not on the wine as long as the 
barrels do not leak. 
Stave thickness for 200-L white oak barrels 
is of the order of 25 mm. Much less makes the 
barrels weaker (barrels are often stacked five 
or more high). Routing or shaving the inside 
of barrels exhausted of extractives can rejuve­
nate them, but they are not found to be fully 
equivalent to new barrels (Rous and Alderson 
1983). 
5. Barrel Management, Problems 
Barrels are a nuisance to the winemaker in 
many ways. They have survived only because of 
their fine maturation effects. They require 
considerable care and attention. They are 
difficult to clean and often impossible to steril­
ize if they have become contaminated with 
undesirable microorganisms. A very vinegary 
barrel or one contaminated by other undesir­
able microorganisms should be removed from The Maturation and Aging of Wines 405 
the winery. Efforts to reclaim it are likely to 
lead to more spoiled wine and no good re­
sults. Prevent such things rather than attempt 
to rectifY them. 
It is important to prevent access of air to 
wine in barrels, particularly to prevent aerobic 
microorganism growth. Two ways to accom­
plish this are to top up or tight bung. If the 
barrel, cask, or other container of wine is 
completely full no aerobic growth is possible. 
If headspace or ullage develops, additional 
wine of the same type can be used to refill the 
container. If this procedure is followed, de­
pending on the temperature and humidity of 
the cellar, topping of barrels will be needed 
every seven to 18 days. Too long allows too 
much space to develop. Since the topping 
wine and the act of adding it will introduce 
some oxygen, topping will promote slight 
chemical oxidation compared to tight bung­
ing. 
In tight bunging, a silicone, tasteless rub­
ber, or firmly driven wooden bung is applied 
and the sealed barrel left undisturbed for six 
months to a year or more. White oak wetted 
with wine is not permeable to air whereas dry 
wood is little barrier to oxygen diffusion. Pre­
sumably, if left so long that some of the inside 
surface became too distant to wick up wine 
and keep it wet, the wine would become aer­
ated and rapidly spoil. This is one reason that 
pallet storage of barrels head up is more wor­
risome; more inside wood surface is exposed 
for a given ullage. Tight-bunged barrels de­
velop a vacuum inside as water and alcohol 
evaporate through the semipermeable surface 
of the barrel (Peterson 1976). This evapora­
tion produces the ullage whether or not the 
barrel is tightly bunged and runs to 2 to 5% of 
the barrel contents per year or 4 to 10 L from 
a standard barrel. It can be more if the wine is 
cooling, leaking, etc., or the cellar tempera­
ture warm, humidity low, or external air circu­
lation high. If a tight-bunged barrel has a tiny 
leak, it can draw air in and still not leak wine 
(Peterson 1976). It is often said incorrectly that 
wooden barrels pass air through the staves to 
the wine. If that were true, vacuum could not 406 The Maturation and Aging oj Wines 
develop. It is true that oxygen would be con­
sumed and vacuum could still result, but air is 
about 80% nitrogen which is slightly smaller 
(therefore more diffusible) than oxygen, about 
equally soluble, and inert. A completely sound 
barrel tightly bunged develops headspace full 
of wine gases and vapor and not external air. 
The wine in a tight-bunged barrel is likely to 
be more protected from air than if topped. Of 
course, during racking, transfer, processing, 
blending, etc., wine from both types of storage 
would contact some air. 
Owing to different molecular sizes, water 
(18) versus ethanol (46), and gradient effects 
of relative humidity, the ethanol concentra­
tion in wine in barrels increases slowly in dry 
cellars and decreases in moist. The balance 
point is about 70% relative humidity and is 
affected by ethanol vapor in the cellar (Blazer 
1991). Larger and nonvolatile components, of 
course, invariably increase slightly. 
If wine containers are kept completely full, 
temperature changes produce either more ul­
lage as the wine cools or overflow if it warms. 
This is because container surface changes as a 
function of the square of the linear change 
due to temperature, whereas the volume is a 
function of the cube. 
If the wine must be stored for a long time 
in small barrels (an important factor years 
ago), it can be important to pretreat a new 
barrel to diminish its contribution of flavorous 
extractives. This was usually accomplished by a 
few days' treatment of the new barrel with 
dilute alkali in the form of about 1.25 g/L 
sodium or potassium carbonate. Today, bar­
rels are desired for their flavor contribution 
and commercial wine can be moved to stain­
less steel cooperage when barrel-mature. 
Therefore, pretreatment of barrels is avoided 
except to ensure the new barrel is clean and 
not leaking. 
The best way to handle empty wine barrels 
is to not have any-refill them as they are 
emptied. If it is necessary to hold used barrels 
empty of wine, various regimens have been 
successfully used. They depend on cleaning 
the barrel of residual wine and tartar and storing it so that microbes do not grow in it. 
Molds are a particularly likely surface contami­
nant on the inside of an empty barrel and they 
can be prevented by either filling the barrel 
with an acidic S02 solution or by drying the 
barrel inside so that, with occasional S02 
gassing, microorganisms do not grow. If the 
solution is used, both the volume and S02 
content must be monitored and replenished 
as needed. If dry storage is used, it needs to be 
in a humidified room so that staves are main­
tained near 18% moisture and do not become 
loose. 
E. OXIDATION AND BROWNING 
Rather extensive oxidation and associated 
changes, including browning, are desirable in 
a few wine types such as Madeiras, Malagas, 
certain sherries and tawny ports. At the other 
extreme, many white and most blush and rose 
table wines are considered blemished with any 
evidence of oxidation or browning. Between 
these extremes, depending in part upon the 
style of a given winery, more golden color for 
white and tawny for red wines may be desired 
or at least tolerated in order to get the flavor 
desired. There is an optimum for such wines 
beyond which oxidation is overdone and qual­
ity suffers. It is not yet possible to define by 
rote or formula how much oxygen a given 
wine has consumed or should be subjected to 
for optimum quality. However, the fundamen­
tal nature of the reactions involved and the 
important parameters are known (Singleton 
1987). Must and juice oxidation are discussed 
in Chapter 3. 
1. Oxygen in Wine 
If a typical table wine is saturated in air at a 
cool room temperature, its oxygen content 
will reach about 6 mL/L or 8 mg/L. Unless 
temperature is lowered or oxygen pressure 
increased, this saturation level cannot be ex­
ceeded. In normal winery practice the wine is 
seldom saturated because contact is insuffi-cient and effort is usually made to mInImize 
oxygen pickup. In pumping over fermenting 
red wine, for example, the rapid evolution of 
carbon dioxide sweeps air away. In racking 
and pumping wine that is free of CO 2, the 
draw and delivery hoses are arranged so as to 
incorporate no entrained air. In fact, if satura­
tion with 02 is desired, considerable splashing 
or sparging is necessary to mix the wine thor­
oughly with air and allow time for 02 dissolu­
tion. Thus, unless special efforts are made, 
wine is seldom fully saturated with air even 
briefly. On the other hand, with racking, top­
ping, and other operations, wine in bulk is 
frequently in contact with some air. If free air 
is allowed above a table wine, growth of Aceto­
bacter and conversion to vinegar begins. It is 
estimated that usual processing and matura­
tion in barrels gives about 20 mL of oxygen 
per liter of contents in the first year and half 
or more of that in subsequent years plus any 
contacted during final bottling operations. 
This fairly small but continuing contact with 
oxygen is an important part of bulk matura­
tion and the cumulative amount can be con­
siderable. 
Oxygen dissolved in wine is consumed by 
reaction with wine components and ordinarily 
falls from saturation to undetectable by about 
a week at room temperature. This is chemical 
autoxidation. Reaction in must (enzymic) is 
much faster and ordinarily oxygen cannot be 
measured in musts by the time they reach 
deep tanks away from crusher-stemmers and 
other sources of air incorporation. Unless re­
supplied, initial reaction obviously terminates 
when 02 is gone but oxidation products may 
interact so that the effects of oxidation con­
tinue for a time. As a bottled wine's oxygen is 
consumed the oxidation-reduction potential 
falls to a rest potential and other reactions, 
even reduction, take over. 
Wine maturing in a closed stainless steel 
tank with no headspace or one filled with inert 
gas does not contact oxygen until the wine is 
transferred or processed. Topping of barrels 
introduces oxygen as will racking or other 
operations. Although oxidation of barreled The Maturation and Aging of Wines 407 
wine results from evaporation losses through 
the wood, oxygen per se is believed not to 
enter the wine through the wet staves of the 
body of the barrel, contrary to statements in 
the literature. The experimental evidence pre­
sented by Peterson (1976) is a good argument 
for this belief. Furthermore, as oxygen diffuses 
into a stave of a barrel filled with wine it will 
encounter oxidizable substrates inside the 
wood including wine that has diffused into the 
inner wood cells. The oxygen should therefore 
be consumed within the wood and not reach 
the wine inside the container. Products of the 
oxidation tend to be larger molecules (poly­
mers) than the substrates and they should 
therefore not readily diffuse back from the 
wood cells into the wine. It is believed that one 
of the reasons barrels have been historically 
good wine containers is that they resist exces­
sive oxygen contact with the body of the wine. 
2. Substrates for Oxidation in Wines 
A number of constituents found in wines can 
be oxidized, some more readily than others. 
Ferrous ions, sulfite, ascorbic acid, phenols, 
and ethanol come readily to mind. For our 
purposes the natural grape wine phenols, in 
particular those with a vicinal 1,2-dihydroxy­
phenyl unit, an ortho-hydroquinone, are the 
most important. One reason we know this is 
because the capacity of a wine to consume 
oxygen is roughly proportional to its total phe­
nol content. The correlation is rough because 
individual phenols, malvidin-3-glucoside for 
example, may not be readily oxidizable be­
cause they cannot be readily oxidized to a 
quinone. Nevertheless, light white wines have 
less capacity to consume oxygen than do red 
wines and heavier red wines have more than 
do less tannic ones. As wines are oxidized their 
content of phenols decreases. If wines are 
treated so as to completely remove phenols, 
with activated carbon for example, the wine's 
ability to react with oxygen is lost. Further­
more, the capacity of a wine to consume oxy­
gen is so large that the amount of most other 408 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
possible substrates is simply too small to ac­
count for it. 
This is not to say other substances do not 
participate. Ascorbic acid has a sufficiently low 
oxidation-reduction potential that it will re­
duce most quinones back to hydroquinones 
and become itself oxidized. For this reason 
ascorbic acid prevents oxidative browning as 
long as it is present in excess, but, unless 
added later, it is usually consumed during 
must preparation and gone from wines. 
Ethanol is not readily autoxidized alone as 
evidenced by the stability of aqueous alcohol 
solutions, but it and other constituents includ­
ing S02 may be oxidized along with phenols. 
Catechol and pyrogallol derivatives react with 
02 in wines and model solutions to produce 
hydrogen peroxide CWildenradt and Singleton 
1974; Tulyathan et al. 1989). Since ethanol is 
relatively high in concentration in wines, the 
hydrogen peroxide generated as phenols are 
oxidized nonenzymically produces acetalde­
hyde from ethanol. Coupled oxidation of this 
type can produce additional products from 
any wine constituent oxidizable by hydrogen 
peroxide whether or not it is oxidizable di­
rectly by 02' 
Reaction of a vicinal dihydroxy phenol 
(caftaric acid, catechins, cyanidin derivatives, 
and gallic acid are predominant examples 
from wines) with oxygen to produce its 
quinone and hydrogen peroxide does not stop 
the reaction at this point. The quinones are 
quite electrophilic and spontaneously com­
bine with nucleophiles such as sulfhydryl com­
pounds, phenols (including more of the origi­
nal one), and certain amines. The dimeric or 
polymeric product of such reaction rearranges 
by a process analogous to enolization and the 
ortho-dihydroxyphenyl unit is regenerated 
ready for another cycle of oxidation. Figure 
10-4 shows an example with caftaric acid and 
glutathione. Phloroglucinol (I,3,5-trihydroxy­
benzene) does not react directly with oxygen 
(Figure 10-5). In a mixture with gallic acid it 
did not enhance oxidation over gallic acid 
alone, but with caffeic acid it did. 
This is a highly significant reaction for un-9. P. NH2 
HOOC-C H2-Ntl-C-fH-NH-C-CH2-CH2-I:H- COOH 
fH2 
HOOC OS OH 
H.b-o-~-~-c 'I ~ H __ QUINONE 
HO'~-H if - GRP O2 
tOOH 
2-S-GLUTATHIONYL CAFTARIC ACIO 
\0 2+ GSH 
LACCASE ~ G- OH 
R'Q: "(\OUINONE 
Fig. 104. Oxidized caftaric acid couples with glutathione 
to regenerate an oxidizable hydroquinone: 2-S-glutathionyl 
caftaric acid. 
derstanding wine browning, because the A-ring 
of flavonoids behaves like phloroglucinol. The 
regenerated dimeric unit when oxidized pro­
duces a more conjugated quinoid, therefore, 
browner in color. Oxidized caffeic acid is a 
golden color, but substituted, the oxidation 
product becomes more brown. Browning in 
white wine is more a function of their flavonoid 
content than their content of other phenols 
(Singleton 1969). Furthermore, the dimeric 
product has a lower oxidation-reduction po­
tential than the original phenol. 
The importance of this is twofold: The 
product is more readily oxidized further than 
for more of the original phenol to be oxi­
dized, and, if the original phenol is oxidized 
to its quinone the dimer hydroquinone can 
reduce it so that the dimer disappears into 
new products while the original phenol is pre­
served. A clear-cut example of such reactions 
is in the oxidation of caftaric or caffeic acid in the presence of excess glutathione (Figure 
10-4). The initial product is 2-S-glutathionyl 
caftaric acid (GRP) (Cheynier et al. 1986). This 
product is no longer a substrate for grape 
phenolase (PPO) as shown by the fact it does 
not disappear when mixed alone with PPO 
and 02 (Singleton et al. 1985). However, 
adding fresh caftaric acid will cause disappear-
OXYGEN 
CONSUMED, 
3 -I 
CM mM 
OXYGEN 
CONSUMED, 
3 -I 
CM mM 80 
60 
a 20 
80 
60 
40 
20 The Maturation and Aging oj Wines 409 
ance of GRP and the appearance of 2,5-S­
diglutathionyl caftaric (or caffeic) acid (Salgues 
et al. 1986; Cilliers and Singleton 1990a; 
Cheynier, et al. 1990). 
Since substitution with glutathione and 
other nucleophiles regenerates the hydro­
quinone form, and these first stage products 
are not then visibly colored, high levels of 
A 
40 60 80 100 120 
TIME ( MIN) 
(a) 
.& 
B 
a 20 40 60 BO 100 120 
TIME (MIN) 
(b) 
Fig. 10-5. Oxygen uptake under alkaline conditions by (a) gallic acid alone • and with 
phloroglucinol 0 and (b) caffeic acid alone t:. and with phloroglucinol A at pH 14. 410 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
these effective nucleophiles prevent browning. 
As soon as they become depleted, browning 
results (Cilliers and Singleton 1990a). If the 
new substituent furnishes further conjugation 
to the molecule, as would phloroglucinol or 
A-ring linked flavonoids, intense browning re­
sults from further oxidation of the dimer and 
larger polymers. Since the reaction can con­
tinue and the dimeric or larger polymer is 
increasingly easily oxidized, still larger poly­
mers form. By steric hindrance of molecular 
approach for further substitution or reduction 
in these larger heterogeneous molecules some 
quinoidal structures are retained and the 
brown color becomes permanent. It cannot be 
fully decolorized by ascorbic acid, S02' or 
other means. Quinones are hydrophobic com­
pared to hydroquinones and this fact plus the 
increasing size make brown polymers from 
phenol oxidation eventually insoluble. They 
can precipitate or form a crust on the inside 
of containers including bottles. Depending 
upon solubility, size, and particular nature, 
oxidation products from phenols will be usu­
ally less or at least different in astringency and 
bitterness compared to the original wine's 
components. Decreased apparent amount 
from precipitation, complexation, adsorption, 
etc., will further mellow and smooth the fla­
vor, while the color becomes more tawny. 
3. Reaction Conditions and the Capacity 
of Wines for Oxygen 
The capacity of a given wine to take up oxygen 
ranges from several to many times the satura­
tion level. As a consequence oxygen electrodes 
or oxidation-reduction measurements are not 
very useful in measuring this capacity. One 
can periodically expose the wine to known 
amounts of air or oxygen and study the ef­
fects, being careful to avoid growth of aerobic 
microbes, or one can measure the actual con­
sumption of oxygen by methods such as War­
burg-type respirometry. Oxygen uptake is slow 
and prolonged if normally acidic wines are 
studied, but as the pH is raised the reaction 
accelerates. At pH 9 or so the reaction be-comes so fast that oxygen uptake into a shaken 
small sample is complete by about 30 minutes. 
There is, of course, concern whether one is 
measuring the same reaction at pH 9 that 
would pertain at pH 3.2 in wine. We believe 
the reaction is essentially the same except for 
explainable rate effects (Cilliers and Singleton 
1989; 1990b). It is well known that high-pH 
wines (highly ripe grapes from warm vine­
yards) do not age well, are poor in quality, and 
deteriorate badly. It is believed that the reason 
that pH has such a great effect on wine oxida­
tion is that it is the phenolate ions that are 
being oxidized. A phenolate ion can transfer 
an electron to an oxygen molecule converting 
it to a superoxide anion free radical and leav­
ing the phenol in the form of a semiquinone 
free radical. The oxidation becomes a chain 
reaction and proceeds rapidly producing 
quinones and hydrogen peroxide. The pKa of 
most phenols is about 10, but there is a tiny 
amount of phenolate even at wine pH and 
oxidation rate appears proportional to the 
phenolate concentration. 
If wine is made alkaline and exposed to 
oxygen, the total oxygen consumed at essen­
tial termination is from about 50 to several 
hundred mg 02/L. If the wine has consumed 
oxygen under its normal acidic condition, the 
amount that it will then consume when made 
alkaline is decreased, but much less than the 
amount of oxygen actually consumed while it 
was acidic (Table 10-9) (Singleton 1987). The 
atoms of oxygen consumed per mole of total 
phenol under alkaline conditions are fairly 
constant at about five in white wines and about 
half that in red wines. This difference is at­
tributed at least in part to the relatively high 
proportion of the phenols of red wines that 
are malvidin derivatives and not directly oxi­
dizable. 
The amount of oxygen consumed per unit 
of phenol disappearing at wine pH in compar­
ison to that during alkaline oxidation is about 
4-12 times as much for white and twice for 
red wines. From 1.4 to 18 times as much 
oxygen was consumed under acidic conditions The Maturation and Aging of Wines 411 
Table 10-9. Comparison of oxygen uptake under slow (acidic) conditions followed by fast (alkaline) conditions. 
Oxygen uptake 
PhOH mg/L mg/L At/M.PhOH At/M.PhOH Acid/ 
Wine mg/L (acid) (alkaline) (alkaline) (acid)' alkaline" 
Chardonnay 266 0 132 5.3 
Chardonnay 249 105 126 5.4 66 18 
White 193 0 89 4.9 
White 162 63 76 5.0 22 5 
Rose 265 0 79 3.2 
Rose 195 39 51 2.8 6 1.4 
Red 676 0 158 2.5 
Red 526 63 130 2.6 4.4 2 
'Atoms of oxygen per mole of gallic acid equivalent phenol lost during the reaction with oxygen under the wine's natural acid 
condition. 
, 'Mg of oxygen absorbed under acidic conditions per mg of oxygen decreased alkaline absorption resulting from acidic 
exposure. 
Source: Adapted from Singleton (1987). 
compared to the decrease in the total amount 
of oxygen required when the system was made 
alkaline (Table 10-9). 
On the basis of 2.5 atoms of oxygen per 
mole of GAE phenol a very rough young red 
table wine with 5000 mg GAE/L total phenol 
would take up about 1.2 grams of oxygen if 
made alkaline and double or more that 
amount if kept normally acidic, albeit much 
more slowly. At about 1.4 g of 02 per liter of 
oxygen gas at standard temperature and pres­
sure that wine could consume nearly its own 
volume of oxygen, more when acidic. Since air 
is about 20% oxygen, a liter of such a red wine 
could consume the oxygen from five to 10 or 
more liters of air! White table wines would be 
expected to consume about one-tenth of this 
amount, which is still quite large. Wines not 
only have a large capacity to consume oxygen, 
but their phenols have substrate, catalyst, and 
buffer roles during oxidation. No wonder this 
family of reactions is so important during wine 
maturation. 
4. Desirable Levels of Oxidation in Wines 
Only limited experimentation has so far been 
reported upon the limits of acceptable and 
desirable levels of oxidation in wines. Combin­
ing available data (Singleton et al. 1979) on 
white wines with red wine data not yet pub-lished (Singleton 1989), the pattern shown in 
Figure 10-6 is estimated. It is intended to con­
vey several ideas. On the sensory score scale 
indicated, 13 is the level for standard wine 
without obvious defects; 12 and below is in­
creasingly lower quality and above 13 higher 
quality. The broad bands are intended to sug­
gest a range for different individual wines. 
With white table wine some wines may im­
prove with the first few saturations, but by 10 
saturations white table wines become defective 
(brown and maderized) from oxidations. Most 
white table wines which do not have a defect 
improved by oxidation (H 2S for example) 
seem best with no oxidation beyond that inci­
dent to modern wine processing. 
Sherries would reach minimal standard oxi­
dation at about the same level that oxidation 
becomes a defect in table wine, about 10 satu­
rations. Red table wines display a wide range 
of responses, but generally improve at least up 
to about 60 mL 0dL 00 saturations) and 
begin to be lowered in quality beyond 150 mL 
02/L or 25 saturations from air. Some red 
wines appear to be further improved by oxida­
tion in the 70-to 130-mL 02/L range and 
others appear to be relatively unchanged in 
overall quality. Although these observations 
are based on extensive experimentation it was 
with few wines and are open to revision in the 412 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
ILl 13 II: o 
U 
U) 
..J 
~ 
:::l 
o II 
o 60 ESTIMATED 
QUALITY vs. OXIDATiON 
120 180 240 
O2 mL/L WINE 
FIg. 10-6. Estimated optimum oxygen consumption by various wine types. 
future. They are not at variance with generally 
recognized good winery practices. 
5. Further Chemistry of Wine Oxidation, 
Gallic, and Caffeic Acid Model Systems 
Two major observations need to be explained 
about oxidation: the very high total oxygen 
capacity and why that capacity is less with 
faster (alkaline) oxidation than with normally 
acidic wine. The nature of some specific oxi­
dation products would also help understand­
ing. Wines are too complex to study usefully at 
least for the present. Much has, however, been 
learned by detailed study of model systems, 
particularly of gallic or caffeic acids. These 
represent pyrogallol and catechol types of 
phenols common in wines and other foods. 
Monophenols and their equivalent meta-di­
phenols and substituted phenols (especially 
methoxy derivatives) are not readily oxidized 
directly because they do not produce quinones. 
Note again (Figure 10-5) that phlorogluci­
nol alone does not consume 02 even when 
made alkaline. It does not augment 02 con-sumption by gallic acid but does increase that 
of caffeic acid. Evidently phloroglucinol re­
generatively dimerizes or polymerizes with 
caffeic quinone but not with gallic acid 
quinone. Examples of monophenols that 
would not be expected to participate in oxida­
tion in wines (unless oxidized to vicinal diphe­
nols by PPO or incorporated into reoxidable 
polymers with previously oxidized vicinal 
diphenols) are coutaric acid, kaempferol, and 
engeletin. Examples of methoxylated deriva­
tives that also would not oxidize directly in­
clude malvidin-3-glucoside and peonidin-3-
glucoside and all their various related forms, 
vanillin, vanillic acid, and fertaric acid. Exam­
ples of wine phenols that would be expected 
to oxidize readily in the mode of catechol 
(l,2-dihydroxybenzene) include caffeic and 
caftaric acids, protocatechuic acid, catechin 
and epicatechin, catechin tannins, quercetin, 
cyanidin-3-glucoside, and perhaps petunidin-
3-glucoside. Examples of wine phenols that 
would be expected to oxidize even more read­
ily in similar fashion to pyrogallol (l,2,3-trihy-droxybenzene) include gallic acid, myricetin, 
and delphinidin-3-glucoside. 
By detailed study and numerical analysis of 
the experimental data it has been shown that 
gallic acid in alkaline solution oxidizes with 
the uptake of about 4.9 atoms of oxygen and 
generation of about two moles of hydrogen 
peroxide per mole of gallic acid completely 
oxidized (Tulyathan et al. 1989). Ellagic acid 
(gallic acid dimeric lactone) reacted similarly 
and gave similar products. The mechanism 
proposed to explain these data is shown in 
Figure lO-7. High oxygen consumption and 
the disappearance of phenol via conversion to 
aliphatic derivatives is explained. About 97% 
of the total gallic acid was oxidized in these 
studies via the dimer equivalent to ellagic acid 
and only about 3% via either additional poly­
merization or direct ring opening of the 
monomeric gallic quinone. 
Caffeic acid, on the other hand, oxidizes 
with very little ring opening, less but still large 
f10-
"F 
_ I 00-
o coo-The Maturation and Aging oj Wines 413 
oxygen uptake and production of several dif­
ferent dimeric and larger polymeric deriva­
tives (Cilliers and Singleton 1989, 1991). The 
latter polymers have regenerated vicinal 
diphenolic rings capable of further oxidation, 
but the mixture of products is relatively con­
stant as long as some caffeic acid remains. 
Chromatograms (HPLC) during 0 to 168 hours 
of caffeic acid oxidation at pH 7.0 are shown 
in Figure 10-8 (Cilliers and Singleton 1989). 
Structures of identified products are shown in 
Figure 10-9 (Cilliers and Singleton 1991). Al­
though the sequence and relative amounts of 
the different oxidation products are affected 
somewhat by pH, the same products occurred 
at higher and lower pHs down to pH 4. The 
reaction was so slow at pH 4 and below that it 
was very difficult to study. Nevertheless, it is 
believed the reactions are similar. 
That the total oxygen uptake is greater with 
slow (acidic) conditions than with fast (al­
kaline) conditions is attributed to more poly-
ELLAGIC 
ACI D 
Fig. 10-7. The mechanism of auto xi­
dation of gallic or ellagic acids in 
aqueous solution at pH 14: A = gallic 
acid, B = gallic acid quinone, C = 
gallic dimer, D '" quinone of climer, 
E = open-ring product of dimer, F = 
open-ring product of gallic acids. 
(Tulyathan et al 1989). 414 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
E 
C 11 BB 
1B0B 
9BB 
BBB 
lSI 
IS) 
N 7B0 
:J 6BB a: 
E 
SBB 
4B0 
300 
200 
1BB 
10 16B H 
48 H 
12 H 
6 H 
B H 
20 3B 4B 
T I me (m in. ) 
Fig. 10-8. Oxidation of caffeic acid at pH 7 for up to 168 hours. 
merization regenerating oxidizable units un­
der the slower conditions. If all the oxidizable 
phenols are rapidly converted to quinones, the 
slower polymerization reaction is minimized. 
There are soon no phenols remaining to link 
with the quinones and extended oxidation 
stops. Conversely, if few phenolates exist, few 
quinones are rapidly formed, but each quinone 
would have much greater chance to be substi­
tuted by another phenolic molecule or other 
nucleophile regenerating a hydroquinone. 
Further slow oxidation would maximize the 
chances that each cycle would extend the 
polymeric substitution-regeneration reaction 
while sparing more of the original phenol. 
Making the wine alkaline at any stage would 
hasten the oxidative reaction for the remain­
ing phenols, but decrease the ultimate total 
uptake of oxygen by limiting the hydro­
quinone regeneration reactions. 
Oxidation of caffeic acid in the presence of 
phloroglucinol or flavonoids with their phloroglucinol-like A-ring would encourage 
nucleophilic substitution into caffeic quinone 
of the electron-rich positions between the 
meta-dihydroxy groups of the phloroglucinol. 
The dimeric product would consume some 
phloroglucinol, whereas phloroglucinol alone 
would not disappear. Furthermore, the het­
erogeneous dimer could oxidize again across 
both rings to a diphenoquinone. Thus, the 
introduction of the phloroglucinol moiety 
would be expected to lower the oxidation re­
duction potential considerably, contribute 
heavily to browning (as flavonoids have been 
shown to do), spare caffeic acid from dimeriz­
ing with and consuming itself, and contribute 
to increasing the total oxygen consumed. 
Gallic acid apparently does not readily 
progress alone beyond the dimer stage. It ap­
parently does not incorporate phloroglucinol 
at least at the relative levels tested. The pyro­
gallol ring, however, readily is oxidatively 
opened. Different phenols obviously behave HO 
H 
HO 
HO 
HO OH COOH 
t3 
COOH 
12 
Fig. 10-9. Structures of identified products of caffeic acid 
oxidation in model solution (Cilliers and Singleton, 1991). 
very differently yet contribute to the overall 
oxidative browning reactions. Although not 
discussed here to avoid complicating the pic­
ture further, amino acids and other com­
pounds can react with quinones and affect 
browning and oxidation effects. 
These explanations clarify what is happen­
ing as wines oxidize. The actual situation in 
maturing wines is obviously extremely com­
plex. Oxidation is very slow and protracted 
allowing for maximum polymerization. Wines 
have complex mixtures of phenols and they 
differ greatly wine by wine. Even a model 
solution of a single phenol oxidized as fast as 
possible produces several compounds. Possible 
interactions in a mixture as complex as a red 
wine are mind-boggling. Nevertheless, it is The Maturation and Aging of Wines 415 
possible to understand and control the process 
in broad practical terms. 
F. BLENDING 
Blending of beverages is an outwardly simple 
and easily understood operation. While the 
mixing of two or more wines is intuitively 
obvious, the optimum blending is not only far 
from simple but is often the difference be­
tween great winemakers/winemaking and the 
ordinary. Wine blending is often said (by ro­
mantic writers about wine) to be where art 
replaces science in winemaking. The most 
skillful wine blender does need to have broad 
and acute sensory capabilities not teachable 
per se, but must supplement them with experi­
ence, attention, rational approaches, and solid 
technology to be consistently successful. 
There is no single "when" to blend wines; 
blending may be appropriate at several stages 
of winemaking and processing. Some wines 
are blended as they are made, notably fortified 
wines and ameliorated wines. The former in­
volve addition of wine spirits to arrest fermen­
tation with residual sugar and the latter addi­
tion of water and sugar to correct imbalance 
of acid and sugar in the musts. Nevertheless, 
the best practice seems to be to make each 
wine as good as possible, with preliminary 
blending as needed, and then assemble a final 
blend fairly late in the bulk processing and 
aging of the wine, often shortly before bot­
tling. For this reason this discussion of blend­
ing has been placed here rather than in sec­
tions on earlier processing. 
1. General Considerations 
Even how to blend is not entirely obvious. The 
blended wine must be uniform throughout 
when the blending is complete and before any 
further operations are attempted. If blending 
is by mixing portions (batch blending) stirring 
should be forceful enough to mix the wine in 
every part of the container. Large paddles or 
other slow, gentle mixers are preferable to 416 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
small, high-speed propellers that may produce 
cavitation and other undesirable effects. Stir­
ring must also be prolonged enough to ensure 
complete mixing (about five to 30 minutes, 
depending on container size and the relative 
differences among the components blended). 
Depending on the accuracy of the metering 
and the turbulence at the point of entry, in-line 
blending (adding the wines together propor­
tionally as a flowing stream) can be a very 
satisfactory method, particularly for blending 
small portions into very large ones, but (if 
conditions permit) a final stirring of the com­
pleted blend is reassuring. 
Blended proportions should be based on 
careful preparation and evaluation of small 
trial blends in advance of the irrevocable pro­
duction blending. A small group of trusted 
tasters is often helpful, but the wine maker 
(master blender, owner) must make the final 
decision in light of the specific goals of the 
blending. It is preferable to reevaluate the 
most promising blends after a period of com­
plete detachment and sensory rest to ensure 
that fatigue has not skewed the results. De­
tailed records should be kept of these trial 
blends and must be kept of any production lot 
blending in case it becomes necessary to prove 
what was done for government regulators or 
other interested parties. 
The regulations are increasingly restrictive 
if the final wine is to be labeled with a grape 
variety, viticultural site name, and vintage date. 
If all of these are to be used, the remaining 
leeway for blending approaches zero in a small 
winery. Subject to the realities of bookkeep­
ing, available tanks, etc., greater opportunities 
remain for improving the final wines by blend­
ing the more different lots are kept separate. 
Blending in the vineyard or at the crusher is 
generally to be shunned, since this forecloses 
options and may saddle the winemaker with 
wines difficult to optimize. 
It does not do much good to segregate a 
uniform lot of grapes into more than one lot 
and treat the lots all the same, because the 
statistical similarity of truly replicate wine lots 
is high, but vineyard sections, harvest dates, differing inocula (yeasts, malolactic fer­
menters), etc., can produce wine lots differing 
enough to be useful in blending even when 
meeting the stringencies of vintage, vineyard, 
and varietal regulations. If less restricting la­
beling is planned, more creative blending is 
possible. This is one reason that large, well­
managed wineries that market inexpensive 
wines to a large market usually have a high 
minimum quality in their bottled wines. To 
use the French term, the negociant-eieveur (one 
who buys and improves wines) traditionally 
bought wines from many farmer-vintners and 
improved them not only by improved cellar­
ing, but by blending as well. The best wines 
are almost invariably blended ones, at least in 
larger production. 
When two essentially finished wines stable 
alone are blended there may be new instabili­
ties and untoward reactions; therefore, a 
"marrying" period to allow flavor and other 
changes and final testing for instabilities is 
recommended before bottling. Pretesting of 
the trial blend, including stability tests, helps 
avoid surprises and can be used to help de­
velop appropriate treatments. Trial blending is 
recommended to be in at least two stages, 
tasting trials and then precisely made larger 
amounts (IO L or more) of the preferred blend 
for marrying and stability tests as well as to 
confirm the tasting results. Of course, the pro­
duction blend should be itself subjected to 
stabilization trials before treatment. Three 
weeks is considered minimal for the marrying 
period for production blends of commercial 
wines in the typical situation when no appre­
ciable flavor or stability changes continue or 
remain uncorrected. It is not uncommon for 
wine to be blended just before bottling, if 
there has been sufficient experience with the 
particular situation. 
2. Objectives of Blending Wines 
Addition or augmentation of characteristics or 
diminution and dilution are the two alterna­
tive objectives for including anyone compo­
nent wine in a blend. Of course, the objective of blending is to make the final wine better. 
This may be to standardize it, balance it, 
achieve complexity, achieve a certain style, or 
optimize it under the specific economic condi­
tions. 
Standardization and uniformity are objec­
tives of blending in large production of wines 
sold regularly in a specific market. Several 
years ago a visitor from a company that bought 
wine and distributed it door-to-door daily in a 
large European city said that their biggest 
problem was one day's delivery of wine consid­
erably better than usual. The consumers com­
plained the following day! Wineries in the 
United States wanting to keep a brand on the 
store shelf with consistent character year-round 
use appropriate blending to do so. The typical 
total inventory of Californian wine in Decem­
ber has been about 1.5 times annual sales 
(Table 10-I), allowing carry over for blending. 
Of course many factors, in addition to age, are 
involved in standardization to relatively con­
stant color, acidity, alcohol, sweetness, etc., 
depending on the wine and the variability of 
the wines available for blending. 
In marketing wines to a bulk buyer or con­
tract bottler's specifications, blending to meet 
those specifications may be necessary. Such 
requirements do not necessarily and automati­
cally make the blend a higher quality. 
Correcting deficiencies is another reason 
for blending. If one wine is too acidic and 
another too flat, the obvious solution is to put 
them together so that they both become im­
proved. This is a frequent problem for the 
producer of fortified dessert wines, particu­
larly on a large scale. In this case it is often 
necessary to balance the cellar by making the 
next production lot so as to correct imbal­
ances among the previous ones. For example, 
if the wines on hand for a port-type blend are 
too alcoholic, too low in sugar, and too weak 
in color, then one or more new production 
lots must be made more alcoholic, sweeter, 
and redder in the proper volume to standard­
ize the final blend. This is less often a problem 
with table wines. Nevertheless, it is important 
for the winemaker to keep the final objectives The Maturation and Aging of Wines 417 
in mind throughout the winemaking processes 
and head off as many potential later problems 
as possible during vinification and the earlier 
stages of processing. 
A wine that has a serious defect such as 
mousiness or obvious acetification is not a 
good candidate to be hidden in an acceptable 
blend and such problems should have been 
prevented. Frequently, Concord and other 
nonvinifera grapes need to be diluted with 
wines from more bland varieties to prevent 
their flavor from being too strong for a table 
beverage to accompany food. This is why the 
minimum legal requirement for varietal label­
ing of Concord wines is not 75%, but 51 %. 
Even some Muscat, Gewiirztraminer, or Sauvi­
gnon blanc wines can be more varietally in­
tense than the winemaker / customers desire. 
If one desires to hide a poor flavor or dilute 
a good but too strong flavor, it is well to 
remember the Weber-Fechner relationship. 
Named for two of the early researchers, it 
states that while compositional changes follow 
a linear relationship, sensory estimates of fla­
vor strength follow a geometric (power func­
tion) progression. For example, a 10% change 
in composition may not seem very different 
and 50% or more may be required for appre­
ciable sensory change. This works for us if we 
are trying to extend a good flavor, but against 
us in disguising a bad one. A strong Sauvignon 
blanc diluted with 25% of a nondescript, but 
nondefective white wine may be rated as not 
much less strong and in fact improved by a 
tasting panel. A mousy wine may still be de­
tectably mousy when blended with a large 
amount of good wine, thus spoiling the blend, 
at least for the sensitive consumer. Of course 
these observations are affected by the typical 
sensory sensitivity to the compounds involved. 
A potent flavor agent may be noted by the 
senses, but be very difficult to analyze chemi­
cally at the levels that occur. A desirable flavor 
well above its sensory recognition threshold 
may make a wine a good blending component. 
It can add to complexity in the blend, particu­
larly if below the recognition threshold, but 
above its minimum difference threshold in the 418 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
blend. For such reasons, it is often useful to 
deliberately make certain portions of a wine 
for blending too high in some desirable char­
acteristic as a more efficient and controllable 
method of reaching a particular and repro­
ducible flavor level. A wine that is too oaky 
itself may be used to make a blend that is 
more suitable and reproducible than if the 
whole lot was oak-aged. 
That complexity is a positive wine quality 
attribute was discussed earlier in this chapter. 
This is a general finding: subtle, coherent 
complexity improves perceived quality in es­
thetic evaluation. The more complex is more 
interesting and over a longer span than the 
simple. This holds true for wines as well as 
music, art or playgrounds. However, wine 
complexity must be within the desired style of 
the wine being made. For example, a blend of 
two or more diverse distinctive varieties (e.g., 
Cabernet, Grenache) would confuse the con­
sumer and while complex, could become a 
less distinctive mishmash. 
Another objective of blending can be eco­
nomic. Typically a winery has relatively large 
amounts of good wine and less superlative 
wine. Because it is probably from less expen­
sive grapes, lesser reputed vineyards, etc., the 
good wine is less expensive. It becomes impor­
tant to use as much of the inexpensive wine as 
possible in each blend, depending on the price 
bracket targeted. You may be selling wine in 
bulk or contract bottled to the buyer's speci­
fications. Meeting those specifications most 
economically governs profit or loss. A large 
winery may blend in superlative lots to raise 
the average quality, but then would have no 
special lots to tout. A small premium producer 
may sell his less than superlative lots in bulk or 
as a second label, reserving those deemed best 
for the top of the line. Economics become 
crucial, woe betide the winemaker who mis­
judges! 
3. Blending Mathematics 
If the blending is of wines similar in composi­
tion and controlled entirely by sensory evalua-tion, fit-and-try methods are necessary, but in 
blending to compositional standards more 
precise methods are needed. It is assumed in 
the methods to be described that changes arc 
linearly proportional to the amounts of the 
wines blended. As already stated, this is gener­
ally true for chemical composition, but not for 
sensory characteristics. Wines are ordinarilv 
blended based on volumes rather than weight. 
This can introduce two kinds of errors when 
one tries to match a certain composition by 
blending: those due to density differences and 
to temperature effects. For table wines under 
usual circumstances these can probably be ig­
nored, but may result in slight analytical dif­
ferences between the trial and production 
blends. Trial blends should be prepared with 
the wines at the temperature they will be when 
the production blend is made. Ordinarily this 
means they should be freshly drawn cellar 
samples. Tasting, on the other hand, should 
be after the blend has reached near room 
temperature for most careful evaluation. Cor­
rection of the volume according to the tem­
perature is possible using standard tables in 
handbooks for dilute aqueous solutions. The 
volume increase as the temperature rises from 
15°C to 28°C is only about 3 mLjL. Propor­
tions of blends would not change as long as all 
blend components were at the same tempera­
ture. 
As the sugar of a must is fermented, the 
volume changes slightly as alcohol is formed. 
If ethanol is added to wine or water, the 
volume increases, but slightly less than the 
sum of the mixed volumes owing to a contract­
ing effect of the water-alcohol solution. While 
these differences are not large, they can be 
important in meeting precise regulations of 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms 
in the United States and similar agencies else­
where. They are primarily relevant only with 
dessert wines or distilled beverages. Reference 
should be made to the appropriate regula­
tions, if necessary (see also Gauging (I950) and 
Guymon and Bachmann (I962). 
If only two wines are to be blended and one 
component is of interest, a simple proportion is usable as demonstrated by the Pearson 
square. The two left corners are given the 
values of the constituent's concentration in 
each wine, the center the desired concentra­
tion of the blend and the diagonal corners on 
the right the differences between each wine's 
content and that desired. Figure 10-10 illus­
trates the situation if wine A has 11 % alcohol, 
wine B has 14%, and the blend should have 
12%. The right-hand values are the ratio for 
the blend; namely, two volumes of wine A per 
volume of wine B. It is, of course, possible to 
compute a summation blend involving several 
wines by adding up the volumes necessary to 
achieve the desired content with one of the 
wines combined with each other wine in turn. 
Blending to specific composition can be 
treated more generally as a series of simulta­
neous linear equations involving each compo­
nent. Of course pH is not described by a 
linear relationship because of its nature and 
the buffering capacity of different wines. Red 
color is another value that is not well ex­
plained in young red wines by linear blending 
equations because it is affected by pH and the 
proportions of the pigments in different forms. 
Many other components can, however, be sat­
isfactorily calculated according to the amount 
(concentration times volume) contributed by 
each wine in a blend. Papers by Costa (1968), 
Moore and Griffin (1978), and Datta and Nakai 
(1992) illustrate the mathematics of blending 
and the application of computers to solving 
blending problems. Computers are particu-
a ....------. b-m 
m 
b L--____ --J m-a VA. b-m 
VB m-a The Maturation and Aging of Wines 419 
larly useful if several wines are to be blended 
to a specific standard for several components, 
not useful if wines are to be blended for 
optimum sensory quality, and not needed if 
only a few wines and few components are 
considered. 
To illustrate the procedure, computerized 
or not, suppose wines A, B, C, and D with 
known analyses for alcohol, total acidity, resid­
ual sugar, and iron content are to be blended 
to give a wine with specified concentration of 
these components. First of all, at least one 
wine must have less than the desired content 
of each component if others have more. Even 
so, depending on the distribution of the other 
components, it may not be possible to reach 
the desired composition with this group of 
wines. One equation is the volume of each 
wine used in the blend summed equals the 
desired volume of the blend (A + B + C + D 
= V). An equation is derived for each of the 
analytical components, e.g., alcohol: alc(A) + 
alc(B) + alc(C) + alc(D) = alc(V). The final 
volume (V, can be 1 or 100%) and the alcohol 
contents of each wine and the desired blend 
are known and are substituted into the equa­
tions. It is similar for the equations for the 
other three components specified in this ex­
ample. The resultant five simultaneous equa­
tions can be solved algebraically for the four 
unknown volumes of the component wines 
necessary to produce the desired blend. 
Computerization allows iterative solutions, 
calculation of the limit volume producible 
All ,.....-----,2 
12 
B 14 '-------' VA 2 
VB· -
Fig. 10-10. The Pearson square, an example. Wine A has 11 % alcohol and B has 
14%. The desired blend will have 12% (presuming constant weight/volume 
relationships). The desired blend will be two parts A for each part of B, or made up 
of 2/3 A and 1/3 B. By algebra: 
VA + VB = 1, VA = 1 - VB 
1 IVA + 14VB = 12 (VA + VB) 
3VB = 1, VB = 1/3, VA = 2/3 420 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
when insufficient wine is available to produce 
the desired blend volume, and other refine­
ments (Moore and Griffin 1978). A graphical 
method limited to three wines per blend is a 
useful illustration and easy to apply (Salgues 
1975). An equilateral right triangle is used to 
plot the data with the corners each represent­
ing one of the three wines in pure form. The 
two sides are graduated in fractions of one or 
100% of two wines relative to that axis and the 
third wine's (C) volume by difference. The 
example given by Salgues (1975) is illustrated 
in Figure 10-11. Wines A, B, and C had, re­
spectively, alcohol of 12%, 11%, 11.5%; iron 
of 7 mgjL, 10 mgjL, 15 mgjL; total acidity of 
7 gjL, 3 gjL, 4 gjL; and relative costs of 12, 
9, 11 (francsjL or $jgal.). The blend is to 
have alcohol 11.5%, minimum cost, iron of 11 
mgjL or less, and acidity of 4.75 gjL or less. 
The graphical solution is shown in Figure 10-11 
where the composition is met by any mixture 
on the line X-V and minimum cost by the 
blend Y of 37% A, 37% B, and 26% C which 
would analyze 11.5% alcohol, 10.2 mgjL Fe, 
4.74 gjL acid, and have a relative cost of 
10.63. Graphing is somewhat easier for the 
third wine using triangular coordinate 0-1 00% 
graph paper, but results are the same. 
4. Fractional Blending 
Fractional blending is more often referred to 
as the solera system that was developed in 
Spain for blending sherries (see also Section 
10.B.2). It could be used for any wine, but is 
the most obviously useful for wines aged in 
many different wooden containers (each of 
which may produce some difference in flavor) 
and where differences among vintages are to 
be masked. Properly executed, solera-type 
fractional blending can produce a wine of 
constant average age that varies imperceptibly 
as new vintages are incorporated. It has disad­
vantages, foremost being that severalfold 
amounts of wine must be in the system com­
pared to the annual withdrawal (sales) rate. 
Especially as originally operated in Spain, it is 
costly in labor. If one container develops mi-crobial spoilage, it will (unless special care 
eliminates that container beforehand) spread 
the spoilage to all subsequent stages. Owing to 
costs, inventory, risks of undesirable oxidation, 
etc., this system has not been widely used, 
except in Spain for sherries. It can, especially 
in modified forms, be useful for dessert wines 
in addition to sherries and possibly for red 
table wines or sparkling wine base wines where 
more age is desired and vintage dating is not. 
G. BOTTLE AGING AND 
POST-BULK-MATURATION STORAGE 
The package of wine to be sold to consumers 
is intended to retain contents and exclude 
oxygen. Storage in such containers at least for 
limited times and conditions should prevent 
undesirable changes. Prolonged bottle storage 
can allow continuation of reactions not com­
pleted during bulk maturation and new effects 
that do not occur during bulk maturation. 
Ethyl bitartrate increase is an example of a 
slow reaction unlikely to be completed before 
bottling. Accumulation of highly volatile prod­
ucts such as dimethylsulfide and reductive re­
actions or others opposed by periodic expo­
sure to air would not occur in bulk but would 
in bottle. The reason that bottle aging can be 
desirable on top of bulk maturation is new 
and additional mellowing and complexing of 
flavors. 
The 750-mL wine bottle sealed with a 5-cm 
natural cork is considered the standard of 
comparison for bottle aging. For long-term 
storage with the intent of improvement b) 
further aging no other container has so far 
proven as satisfactory or been as well tested. 
However, in 1987, only about 25% of retailed 
table wine from California was sold in that size 
and some of that with screw caps. For short­
term storage, say up to six months, screw caps 
and other containers may be satisfactory and 
have advantages. A multilayer collapsible bag 
(often in a semirigid box, therefore termed 
bag-in-box here and cask in Australia) has the 
advantage of collapsing without admitting air Given: Wine Alc.% 
A 12 
B 11 
C 11.5 
Desired: Blend U.5 
8 100 
8 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
Fe mg/L Acidg/L 
7 7 
10 3 
15 4 
11 max. 4.75 max 
TOO HIGH 
AClO 
60 ReI. Cost 
12 
9 
11 
min. 
80 
1. The sum of the volumes A + B + C = 100% of the blend's volume. 
2. Alcohol: 12A + lIB = 11.5C = 11.5 (100: simplitying in terms of A and B, 
A = B. Any blend on the line E-F (C = 100%, A = B = 50-%) gives 11.5% 
alcohol. 
3. Fe: 7A + lOB + 15C = 11 (100) or less; simplitying in terms of A and B, 
SA + 5BN = 400 max. Any blend on the low FE side of the line G-H (A = 0, 
B = SO, C = 20; B = 0, A = 50, C = 50) is acceptable. 
4. Acid: 7A + 3B + 4C = 4.75 000 max.; simplitying in terms of A and B, 
3A - B = 75 max. Any blend on the low side of line J-K (B = 0, A = 25, C = 75; 
C= 0, A = 43.75, B = 56.25 by iteration) is acceptable. 
5. Minimum price: Any blend along the segment X-V is compositionally acceptable. 
Since in these blends A = B and their combined price is 10.50, the lowest C 
blend has the minimum price. Therefore blend Y has the minimum price. 
6. The chosen blend is 37% A, 37% B, and 26% C. 
Fig. 10-11. Graphical blending of three wines to be specified composition. 
(Adapted from Salgues (1975». 421 
as wine is dispensed. In this regard, it can be 
preferable to a glass bottle or decanter that is 
used for more than a short time after remov­
ing the original cork. The layers can include, 
say, polyethylene nearest the wine to avoid off-flavors and thin metal foil to exclude light 
and oxygen. Considerable know-how has gone 
into such packaging and other plastic contain­
ers and stoppers for wine. They are not in­
tended for long storage, but may be quite 422 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
satisfactory for the short term. The tests so far 
reported (e.g., Boidron and Bar 1988; Ough 
1987) have generally indicated sensory differ­
ences after about six months between the same 
wine in such containers and in bottles with 
good natural corks, the difference favoring 
the traditional package. The remainder of our 
comments will focus on the traditional corked 
wine bottle. 
The glass of wine bottles is not entirely 
inert and identifiable but commonly insignifi­
cant inorganic extraction may occur depend­
ing on the glass and its pretreatment, sodium, 
and silicates for examples. The color is in­
tended to exclude light, particularly the 
shorter wavelengths such as ultraviolet, violet, 
and blue. Short wavelengths are most ener­
getic and can cause the most chemical change. 
For example, light catalyzes consumption of 
oxygen and achievement of a rest potential. 
Even a few minutes of strong direct sunlight 
on wine in a colorless bottle may produce 
off-flavors. If wine is stored only in dark cel­
lars, the bottle color is not important. To the 
degree the bottled wine is exposed to light 
and considering the length of possible expo­
sure, the darker and more low-wavelength­
absorbing the glass should be. Opaque, black, 
or dark red would be best, but customers like 
to see that the bottle is full and the wine is 
clear and suitably red or yellow for the type. 
Cork is a natural bark from Quercus suber 
grown mainly in Portugal and countries close 
to the Mediterranean Sea. As such it inevitably 
is variable and this is not the place for appre­
ciable detail. Sometimes individual corks can 
carry moldy and other tastes to the wine they 
stopper. Such off-flavored bottles, termed 
corky, may cause returns and loss of customers. 
This is an active area as cork suppliers and 
wineries work to get the incidence as low as 
possible in the face of high demand for bottle 
corks as premium table wines make up a larger 
fraction of total wines. The most clearly recog­
nized culprit is 2,4,6-trichloroanisole which has 
a moldy newspaper odor detectable at a few 
parts per billion. Incidence is one or two bot­
tles out of a hundred as noted at recent wine judgings. Some wineries with some lots of cork 
have in the past found several times this inci­
dence. 
This trichloroanisole odor appears to be 
the result of a combination of factors thought 
to include bleaching of corks with chlorine 
during manufacture and molds occurring Oll 
or in the corks. At this point all that one can 
suggest for practical use by the winemaker is 
to build a relationship with a cork supplier. 
Pretest a number of corks before using a new 
lot by some means such as immersion of them 
in small closed containers with water or wine 
and after a few days smelling carefully to de­
tect any incidence. Abnormal lots should be 
returned unused with an explanation. 
The best information available suggests a 
soundly cork-stoppered wine bottle may allow 
access on the order of 0.1 mL of 02/L/year. 
Thus, it would take about 60 years to be equiv­
alent to one saturation before the wine was 
bottled! This is considered essentially anaero­
bic. Eventually a cork will fail. Ullage develops 
and the wine at some point rapidly declines. 
For a time, however, bottle aging or anaerobic 
storage in any similar container contributes 
new flavor effects, greater complexity and in­
terest' and increased quality, at least in certain 
wines in the perception of discerning con­
sumers. 
1. Bottle Bouquets 
Along with less specific mellowing and com­
plexing flavor changes, a major change with 
bottle aging that does not become evident 
during bulk aging is the development of bottle 
bouquets. The bottle bouquet of white wine~ 
may be described as a sun-dried linen or boiled 
artichoke smell. Once a good example ha~ 
been enjoyed it is much more easily recog­
nized than described. Its exact chemical na­
ture is not certain. It probably consists of more 
than one significant compound. One of these 
is dimethylsulfide. This compound occurs in 
juice, but is very volatile and easily lost from 
wine in open containers. It does increase with 
bottle age, especially in Riesling wines (Loubser and DuPlessis 1976). Alone it has a boiled 
fresh corn smell, however, unlike bottle bou­
quet but probably contributory. It occurs in 
other wines and in a series of Cabernet wines 
varied from 42 to 910 JLg/L (threshold 60 
JLg/L) correlated more with vintage than with 
bottle age (De Mora et al. 1987). 
Another group of compounds that in­
creases with bottle age and are believed con­
tributory to bottle bouquet especially in white 
wines are derived from isoprenoid-terpene 
sources. Of course, monoterpenes and 
norisoterpenes contribute to muscat and cer­
tain other varietal aromas, but they can change 
from glycoside hydrolysis and other reactions 
during aging. It is our experience, however, 
that bottle bouquet of the usual white table 
wine type does not become recognizable in 
muscat wines. This may be from overshadow­
ing of the delicate bouquet by the more odor­
ous muscat terpenes, but Riesling readily de­
velops bottle bouquet. Vitispirane (Simpson 
et al. 1977) and 1,1 ,6-trimethyl-1 ,2-dihydro­
naphthalene (TDN) (Simpson 1978) rose with 
time in bottle along with linalool oxide, nerol 
oxide, and the carbohydrate breakdown prod­
ucts furfural and ethyl furoate (Simpson 1979). 
Ethyl n-decanoate and other volatile esters 
tend downward early. The carbohydrate 
derivatives and vitispirane were below flavor 
thresholds and the oxides were less flavorful 
than the parent alcohols, linalool and nerol. 
The naphthalene derivative (TDN) is an 
important contributor to bottle bouquet in a 
few wines notably Rieslings. However, it has a 
kerosene smell that is not automatically attrac­
tive if strong. Other wines may have different 
bottle bouquets. That of ports is more 
plummy-fruity and old dry red wines develop a 
fruity-varnishy character somewhat different 
from the sunny linen white wine bottle bou­
quet. Some red table wines, particularly lighter 
ones and roses, often will develop essentially 
the same bottle bouquet that white wines do. 
Not all wines of a given class develop nicely 
with age. Some lose their original attractive­
ness gaining little in return by long bottle 
storage (light fino sherries belong in this cate-The Maturation and Aging of Wines 423 
gory). Others may hold rather well but do not 
develop the extra nuances expected from bot­
tle age. This is partly a varietal and partly a 
processing result. Riesling, Semillon, and 
Chardonnay table wines usually develop well 
in the bottle. Muscat and Chen in blanc usually 
have not in our experience. Red wines take 
longer, as a rule, and become less readily 
distinguishable by grape variety, but nearly all 
dry table reds that do not depend too heavily 
on grape aromas for their charm can develop 
with bottle age. 
2. Time- Temperature Effects 
Dry white table wines stored in the same cellar 
immediately after bottling at a controlled tem­
perature of 12°C were rated blindly on a 10-
maximum scale for bottle bouquet (Table 10-
10) (Singleton, et al. 1964). The average bottle 
bouquet rating increased up to four years of 
storage. The maximum ratings were received 
after five years and some wines never devel­
oped recognizable bottle bouquet of the ex­
pected type (notably but not confined to Mus­
cats). If one assumes a QIO of 2, and that bottle 
bouquet development as estimated sensorially 
behaves as a typical chemical reaction, two 
years at 22°C, one year at 32°C, six months at 
42°C, and three months at 52°C should give 
similar bottle bouquet development to four 
years at 12°C. Maximum temperature to avoid 
undesirable reactions is about 52°C (Singleton 
and Kramling 1976). 
Table 10-10. Effect of length of storage of white dry 
table wines in bottles at 12°C on bottle 
bouquet rating. 
Minimum and 
maximum 
Years of Number of rating 
storage wines (0-10 scale) 
2 25 0-4 
3 31 0-7 
4 51 1-8 
5 35 1-9 
6 15 1-8 
Source: Adapted from Singleton et al. (1964). Average rating 
(0-10 scale) 
1.36 
2.71 
4.10 
3.94 
4.13 424 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
Bottle bouquet was readily developed in 
bottled wines heated when freed of oxygen 
with CO2 or especially with N2 but not if air or 
02 was present (Singleton et al. 1964). The 
mean sensory rating for grape aroma de­
creased rapidly, but bottle bouquet and com­
plexity increased slowly with prolonged heat­
ing to 32 days at 53°C. Corks must be tied 
down or other closures used. The data from 
these and subsequent tests are consistent with 
the cellar data in regard to QIO for bottle 
bouquet development near but perhaps slightly 
higher than 2 and all that implies. Again, the 
importance of 02-free conditions and a low 
oxidation-reduction potential during bottle 
bouquet development, with or without heat, is 
emphasized. Also, grapey-fruity aromas are lost 
more rapidly with warm storage than with 
cool. Major parts of the advantage of cool 
storage for wine aging are that the fruity­
varietal aromas are retained longer as bottle 
bouquet develops and the wine is both im­
proved and preserved over a longer time at 
cooler temperatures. Of course, too cold, re­
action is prevented (see previous discussion). 
H. RAPID MATURATION AND AGING 
There is a persistent barrier to the adoption of 
deliberate technological acceleration of matu­
ration and aging of wines related to the di­
chotomy that premium wine producers want 
their customers to know they use the time­
honored traditional processes. Customers for 
more inexpensive wines do not understand or 
want aged characters in their wines because 
they have not been exposed to them. It may be 
true that ultimate quality of the best wines 
matured and aged by the traditional processes 
is higher than can be achieved, at present, by 
improved, cheaper and faster technology. It is 
true, however, that the traditional methods do 
not convert every wine to ultimate quality by 
rote application; results are variable and not 
infrequently disappointing in proportion to 
their costs. Traditional processes, especially four years 
of bottle age, frequently are not economicallv 
feasible at the winery. The choice is often little 
or no maturation and aging versus application 
of specific, controlled techniques gaining the 
benefits of traditional processes in faster, less 
expensive ways. This type of economic pres­
sure is likely to intensify. Pleasant as the sim­
ple, fresh, fruity wines are, it would be sad to 
lose the additional diversity, excitement, fasci­
nation, and satisfaction of well-matured and 
aged wines. The average quality of inexpensive 
wines can certainly be raised by adopting im­
proved procedures when traditional ones are 
outmoded or become too expensive. 
Methods should be considered such as us­
ing oak bits in stainless steel tanks to provide 
extractives, deliberate but controlled and lim­
ited oxidation, and anaerobic warming to pro­
vide bouquet. Each winemaker should be 
aware of possibilities and new developments as 
they occur and consider them in relation to 
their situation. It remains important to pro­
duce attractive, healthful, diverse wines for the 
benefit of consumers in general, not just ex­
pensive varieties for the rich. 
Such procedures do not necessarily pro­
duce compromised quality. For example, a 
better wine might be possible by judicious 
blending of one wine to retain fruity-varietal 
character with another contributing barrel­
matured quality and a third contributing 
bottle-aged bouquet than would have been 
possible from anyone of the three alone 
matured and aged by traditional and expen­
sive methods. 
I. REFERENCES 
1988 Wine Industry Statistical Report. 1989. San Fran­
cisco: Wine Institute. 
BAKER, G. A., M. A. AMERINE, and E. B. ROESSLER. 
1952. "Theory and application of fractional 
blending systems." Hilgardia 21 :383-409. 
BLAZER, R. M. 1991. "Wine evaporation from bar­
rels." Prac. Wine / Vin. 12:20-23. BOIDRON, J. N., and M. BAR. 1988. "Influence du 
materiau sur l'evolution du vin conditionne en 
contenant de faible volume." Connais. Vigne Vin 
22:73-83. 
CHEYNIER, V., J. RIGAUD, and M. MOUTOUNET. 1990. 
"Oxidation kinetics of trans-caffeoyltartrate and 
its glutathione derivatives in grape musts." Phy­
tochemistry 29: 1751-1753. 
CHEYNIER, V., E. K TROuSDALE, V. L. SINGLETON, M. 
J. SALGUES, and R. WYLDE. 1986. "Characteriza­
tion of 2-S-glutathionylcaftaric acid and its hy­
drolysis in relation to grape wines."]. Agric. Food 
Chem. 34:217-221. 
CiLLIERS, J. J. L., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1989. "Non­
enzymic autoxidative phenolic browning reac­
tions in a caffeic acid model system." ]. Agric. 
Food Chem. 37:890-896. 
CILLIERS,.J..J. L., and V. L. SINGLETO;-';. 1990a. "Caf­
feic acid autoxidation and the effects of thiols." 
]. Agric. Food Chem. 38:1789-1796. 
CiLLIERS, J. J. L., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1990b. "Non­
enzymic autoxidative reactions of caffeic acid in 
wine." Am.]' Enol. Vitic. 41:84-86. 
CILLIERS,.J. J. L., and V. L. SI:-'-GLETO"'. 1991. "Char­
acterization of the products of nonenzymic 
autoxidative phenolic reactions in a caffeic 
acid model system." ]. Agric. Food Chem. 
39: 1298- 1303. 
COOKE, G. M., and H. W. BERG. 1971. "Varietal 
table wine processing practices in California. II. 
Clarification, stabilization, bottling, and aging." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 22:178-183. 
COOKE, G. M., and H. W. BERG. 1973. "Table wine 
processing practices in the San Joaquin Valley." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 24:153-158. 
COOKE, G. M., and H. W. BERG. 1984. "A re­
examination of varietal table wine processing 
practices in California. II. Clarification, stabiliza­
tion, aging, and bottling." Am.]' Enol. Vitic. 
35:137-142. 
COSTA, E. N. 1968. "A simple analog computer for 
blending calculations." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
19:84-90. 
DADA, G., A. CORBA."lI, P. MANITTO, G. SPERANZA, and 
L. LliNAZZI. 1989. "Lignan glycosides from the 
heartwood of European oak Quercus petraea." ]. 
Nat. Prod. 52:1327-1330. 
DATTA, S., and S. NAKAI. 1992. "Computer-aided 
optimization of wine blending." ]. Food Sci. 
57:178-182,205. The Maturation and Aging of Wines 425 
DE MORA, S. J., S. J. KNOWLES, R. ESCHENBRUCH, and 
W. J. TORREY. 1987. "Dimethyl sulfide in some 
Australian red wines." Vitis 26:79-84. 
EDWARDS, T. L., V. L. SINGLETON, and R. B. BOUL­
TON. 1985. "Formation of ethyl esters of tartaric 
acid during wine aging: Chemical and sensory 
effects." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:118-124. 
Gauging Manual. 1950. Washington, DC: Bureau of 
Internal Revenue, U. S. Treasury Deptartment. 
GVYMON, J. F., and J. A. BACHMANN. 1962. "Inter­
conversion tables for percentage of ethyl alcohol 
in water." Leaf1et 145:1-11. Berkeley, CA: Cali­
fornia Expt. Sta. Extension Service. 
HERVE DU PENHOAT, C. L., V. M. F. MICHON, A. 
o HASSAN , S. PENG, A. SALBERT, and D. GAGE. 
1991. "Roburin A, a dimeric ellagitannin from 
heartwood of Quercus robur." Phytochem. 30: 
329-332. 
JOSLTh', M. A., and M. A. AMERI"'E. 1964. Dessert, 
Appetizer and Related Flavored Wines. The Technol­
ogy of Their Production. Berkeley CA: University of 
California, Division of Agricultural Sciences. 
KEPNER, R. E., A. D. WEBB, and C. J. MULLER. 1972. 
"Identification of 4-hydroxy-3-methyloctanoic 
acid y-lactone [5-butyl-4-methyldihydro-2(3H)­
furanonel as a volatile component of oak-wood­
aged wines of Vitis vinifera var. Cabernet Sauvi­
gnon." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 23:103-105. 
LOuBSER, G., and C. S. DUPLESSIS. 1976. "The quan­
titative determination and some values of 
dimethyl sulfide in white table wines." Vitis 
15:248-252. 
MALVEZIN, F. 1903. Viellisement des Vins et Spiritueux. 
Nouveau Traitement des Vins ou Pasteuroxyfrigorie. 
Bordeaux, France: Feret et Fils. 
MARTINEZ DE LA OSSA, E., I. CARO, M. BONAT, L. 
PEREZ, and B. DOMECQ. 1987. "Dry extract in 
sherry and its evolution in the aging process." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:321-325. 
MOORE, D. B., and T. G. GRIFFIN. 1978. "Computer 
blending technology." Am. ]. Enol. Vitic. 
29:50-53. 
NABETA, K, J. YONEKUBO, and M. MIYAKE. 1986. 
"Analysis of volatile constituents of European 
and Japanese oaks." Mokuzai Gakkaishi 32: 
921-927. 
open Shelf-Life Dating of Food. 1979. Washington, DC: 
Office of Technology Assessment. 
OUGH, C. S. 1987. "Use of PET bottles for wine." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:100-104. 426 The Maturation and Aging of Wines 
PETERSON, R. G. 1976. "Formation of reduced pres­
sure in barrels during wine aging." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic. 27:80-81. 
QUINN, M. K, and V. L. SINGLETON. 1985. "Isolation 
and identification of ellagitannins from white 
oak wood and an estimation of their roles in 
wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:148-155. 
RAMEY, D. D., and C. S. OUGH. 1980. "Volatile ester 
hydrolysis or formation during storage of model 
solutions and wines." ]. Agric. Food Chem. 
28:928-934. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON, P. 1986. "Self-life of wine." In 
Handbook of Food and Beverage Stability. G. 
Charalambous, Ed., pp. 745-772. New York: 
Academic Press. 
Rous, C., and B. ALDERSON. 1983. "Phenolic extrac­
tion curves for white wine aged in French and 
American oak barrels." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
34:211-215. 
SALGUES, M. 1975. "Determination d'un assemblage 
par programmation lineare." Prog. Agric. Vitic. 
175(20):605-609; (23):723-730. 
SALGUES, M., V. CHEYNIER, Z. GUNATA, and R. WYLDE. 
1986. "Oxidation of grape juice 2-S-glutathionyl 
caffeoyl tartaric acid by Botrytis cinerea laccase 
and characterization of a new substance: 2,5-di­
S-glutathionyl caffeoyl tartaric acid." ]. Food Sci. 
51:1191-1194. 
SEFTON, M. A, I. L. FRANCIS, and P. j. WILLIAMS. 
1990. "Volatile norisoprenoid compounds as 
constituents of oak wood used in wine and spirit 
maturation." ]. Agric. Food Chern. 38:2045-2049. 
SIMPSON, R. F. 1978. "1,1,6-Trimethyl-l,2-dihydro­
naphthalene: an important contributor to the 
bottle bouquet of wine." Chern. Ind. :37. 
SIMPSON, R. F. 1979. "Aroma composition of bottle 
aged white wine." Vitis 18:148-154. 
SIMPSON, R. F., C. R. STRAUSS, and P. j. WILLIAMS. 
1977. "Vitispirane: A C I3 spiro-ether in the 
aroma volatiles of grape juice, wines, and dis­
tilled grape spirits." Chern. Ind. :663-466. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1962. "Aging of wines and other 
spiritous products, acceleration by physical treat­
ments." Hilgardia 32:319-392. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1969. "Browning of wines." Die 
Wynboer (455):13-14. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1974 .•• Some aspects of the wooden 
container as a factor in wine maturation." Adv. 
Chem. 137:254-277. SINGLETON, V. L. 1979. "Recent developments in 
wine aging." Proc. 5th Wine Ind. Tech. Seminar, 
November 25 1978, Monterey, California, pp. 
31-37. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1987. "Oxygen with phenols and 
related reactions in musts, wines, and model 
systems: Observations and practical implica­
tions." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 38:69-77. 
SINGLETON, V. L. 1989. "Browning and oxidation of 
musts and wines." Proc. 4th Ann. Midwest Regional 
Grape and Wine Conf. 4:87-93. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and D. E. DRAPER. 1961. "Wood 
chips and wine treatment; the nature of aqueous 
alcohol extracts." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 12:152-158. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and T. E. KRA.M"LING. 1976. 
"Browning of white wines and an accelerated 
test for browning capacity." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
27:157-160. 
SINGLETON, V. L., and C. S. OUGH. 1962. "Complex­
ity of flavor and blending of wines." ]. Food Sci. 
27:189-196. 
SINGLETON, V. L., C. S. OUGH, and M. A. AM"ERI~E. 
1964. "Chemical and sensory effects of heating 
wines under different gases." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
15:134-145. 
SINGLETO~, V. L., M. SALGUES,j. ZAYA, and E. TROUS­
DALE. 1985. "Caftaric acid disappearance and 
conversion to products of enzymic oxidation in 
grape must and wine." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
36:50-56. 
SINGLETON. V. L., A R. SULLIVfu"l, and C. KRAMER. 
1971. "An analysis of wine to indicate aging in 
wood or treatment with wood chips or tannic 
acid." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 22:161-166. 
SINGLETON, V. L., E. TROL:SDALE, and j. ZAYA. 1979. 
"Oxidation of wines. I. Young white wines peri­
odically exposed to air." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
30:49-54. 
TULYATHAN, V., R. B. BOULTON, and V. L. SINGLE­
TON. 1989. "Oxygen uptake by gallic acid as a 
model for similar reactions in wines." ]. Agric. 
Food Chem. 37:844-849. 
WILDENRADT, H. L., and V. L. SINGLETO:--J. 1974. 
"The production of aldehydes as a result of 
oxidation of polyphenolic compounds and its 
relation to wine aging." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
25:119-126. CHAPTER 11 
THE BOTILING AND STORAGE OF WINES 
The bottling of wines is arguably the most 
important of all winemaking operations since 
it determines the condition in which the wine 
is delivered to the market. It is the culmina­
tion of the sequence that began long before, 
starting with grape development, harvesting, 
fermentation, and aging. Mistakes are costly to 
rectify and quality control is of primary impor­
tance. 
The glass bottles used for wine are gener­
ally the 750-mL size, of clear or colored glass 
and in a number of traditional shapes. Other 
volumes, smaller and larger, are also used 
depending on the interest in further aging, 
the setting in which it is likely to be consumed, 
and the value of the wine. The inertness and 
protection offered to wines by glass bottles has 
been verified by many years of usage. The 
most vulnerable aspect of bottled wine is the 
nature of the closure or seal that is employed. 
For many years corks have been unquestioned 
as the closure of choice due to their compress­
ible, relatively inert nature. However, in re­
cent decades, the elimination of many defects 
due to improved winemaking technology has 
made the incidence of defects attributable to corks to be a major problem in some wines 
(Lee and Simpson 1992). 
The preparation of wines for bottling, the 
steps involved in bottling and the aspects of 
their behavior under bottle storage conditions 
are the subjects addressed in this chapter. The 
addresses of equipment companies mentioned 
in this chapter can be found in Appendix I. 
A. PREPARATION FOR BOTTLING 
The preparation of wines for bottling involves 
any final adjustments of chemical composi­
tion, final filtration, and modification of the 
dissolved oxygen and carbon dioxide levels in 
the wines. The preparation of blends, fining, 
stabilization, and adjustments of acidity should 
not be considered as finishing operations and 
will generally have been attended to some 
period before the time of bottling. 
1. Final Filtration 
The type and style of wine will somewhat in­
fluence whether filter pads or a membrane are 
427 428 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
to be employed as the final filtration. The use 
of nominally sterile pads is widely practiced, 
particularly with dry wines, while wines con­
taining residual sugar, or those in which the 
malolactic fermentation has been prevented, 
will generally be membrane filtered. The as­
sumption that dry wines that have completed 
malolactic fermentation will not support addi­
tional microbial growth is not always true in 
practice (Lee et al. 1984). While the incidence 
of later microbial spoilage is lower in such 
cases, it is not eliminated entirely. The contin­
uing trend for the use of lower levels of chem­
ical additives and the desire to use minimal 
concentrations of sulfur dioxide only enhance 
the recommendation of membrane filtrations 
as the means to prevent unwanted microbial 
action in bottled wines. 
Concerns about color removal from red 
wines by membrane filters have no sensory 
basis since the material collected on such fil­
ters has already precipitated from solution and 
insoluble particles have no taste or flavor asso­
ciated with them. Such material will usually 
deposit in the bottle within the first months 
after being bottled and the collection of it on 
the filter is simply deferring the onset of such 
a deposit. The removal of yeast and bacterial 
cells, which also have no taste contribution in 
themselves, is for reasons of quality control 
and the assurance that the wine that is con­
sumed closely resembles that which was put 
into the bottle. The point is, that only soluble 
components that can be sensed by taste recep­
tors on the tongue or volatile ones reaching 
the nasal cavity can have a sensory impact and 
there is no evidence that soluble components 
and small volatile molecules are significantly 
removed by such filtrations. 
The need to remove all microbes by filtra­
tion is a far more acceptable approach to 
controlling unwanted microbial activity than 
the chemical additive approach. The variation 
in quality due to microbial effects can often be 
seen in wines that have not been filtered, 
within the first two years after bottlin~. Tastin~ 
of a series of wines from different vintages made in this style by the same producer will 
generally show such changes and they are un­
desirable in vintage-dated varietal wines. 
The notion of stripping of wine compo­
nents by filtration has little scientific basis. 
While some individuals claim to have shown 
this to be real, there are no panel tests or 
published results to support it. It has become 
fashionable, in some circles, to claim that un­
filtered or unfined wines are superior, but this 
has no basis in fact. There are wines that will 
not need to be fined and perhaps not need to 
be filtered, but they are not necessarily an) 
better than those that have been. These argu­
ments are generally driven by public relations 
efforts that try to distinguish wineries from 
one another or by wine writers who try to be 
controversial rather than educational in their 
comments. Bottle sickness, a temporary lower­
ing of flavor in freshly bottled wines, appears 
to result from the disturbance of an estab­
lished vapor-liquid equilibrium and not from 
filtration. 
2. Membrane Filtration of Wines 
Membrane filters are made of synthetic poly­
mers such as cellulose acetate, cellulose ni­
trate, and polysulfone. They have closely con­
trolled pore sizes and are set up so that the 
flow is perpendicular to and through the 
membrane (with pore sizes of 0.45, 0.65, 0.8, 
and 1.2 /Lm). Membrane filters rely on their 
pore size to exclude larger particles (micro­
organisms or crystals) or partially soluble col­
loids (proteins, polysaccharides, or tannins and 
complexes involving them). They have far less 
capability to collect suspended matter inter­
nally in the way that filter cakes and pads do, 
and so generally wine is prefiltered with a 
depth-collection pad or cartridge or a fine 
grade of diatomaceous earth before it is con­
tacted with a membrane filter. The membrane 
should be thought of as the capture surface 
for the few particles that are not collected by 
the prefilter. A more detailed discussion of 
filtration and filter testing can be found in 
Chapter 7. a. Fouling of Membrane Filters 
With the use of more extensive clarification 
and prefiltration, the fouling, or silting, of 
membrane filters is commonly due to colloidal 
rather than suspended components. The per­
formance of membrane filters depends on the 
colloid content of the wine and the extent to 
which this has been modified by fermentation, 
fining or cold storage, or prefiltration. Many 
wineries do not currently perform filter testing 
of wines, or attempt to measure the colloid 
content, to be aware of troublesome filtration 
conditions. 
The principal cause of poor membrane life 
with certain wines appears to be due to col­
loidal complexes of proteins, phenols, and 
other entities and of polysaccharides from 
grapes and yeasts. Although soluble, they have 
an adsorption affinity for the surface of the 
membrane. The practice of using warm wine 
temperatures (up to 25°C) during such filtra­
tions to enhance the solubility of such colloids 
is not generally used. The traditional use of 
cold wine temperatures for the bottling of 
white wines and especially sweet wines only 
accentuates the difficulties of filtration with 
such wines. The fouling of membranes and 
pads by polysaccharides can usually be distin­
guished from particulate plugging by success­
ful regeneration with hot water rinsing at neu­
tral or higher pH. The polysaccharides are 
often soluble under such conditions while 
other particulates, commonly microorganisms 
or suspended particles are not. 
Some of the earliest indications of the role 
of colloidal components on the fouling of 
membranes are due to studies by Berg in 
1975. Unpublished reports of his data show 
the effects of certain colloidal fractions on the 
membrane throughput and the positive influ­
ence of various pretreatments such as low-tem­
perature holding, the use of fining agents and 
their sequence, as well as the use of prefilters 
on membrane performance. 
3. Preparations for Membrane Filtration 
While sterile filtration can often be accom­
plished by use of depth pads alone, it is more The Bottling and Storage of Wines 429 
commonly done with a membrane filtration 
following the pad filtration (Chapter 7). The 
pad filtration provides for removal of un­
wanted particulate materials before they reach 
the membrane, thus allowing for a high­
volume throughput of wine before there is 
significant fouling of the membrane. The use 
of a membrane as a final filter also allows for 
integrity testing of the filtration assembly. 
a. Sterilization of the Bottling 
Equipment 
It must be emphasized that all equipment 
downstream from, and including, the filtration 
assembly must be made sterile; and this steril­
ization must be done by heat. Hot water, or 
steam, is sent through the filters and their 
holders, through all of the lines leading to the 
filler, through the filler bowl and all of the 
filler spouts. The recommendations are that 
hot water (entering at 82°C and exiting at 
72°C) or live steam (with 2 cm of invisible 
vapor) flows out of the filler spouts for at least 
20 minutes. This is not to say that 20 minutes 
of such heat in direct contact is required for 
killing microorganisms; the time has been em­
pirically determined to be sufficient for killing 
all of the unwanted microbes with which the 
heat does not come in direct contact. In situa­
tions where the filters are distant from the 
filler apparatus, this time period or the en­
trance water temperature should be made cor­
respondingly greater. Heat sterilization is most 
effective when all of the surfaces, including 
threads of connection fittings, are clean and 
free from organic material. Thus, pretreat­
ments with detergents and sanitizing agents 
are highly recommended. However, it must be 
stressed that the sterilization of the equipment 
for sterile bottling cannot be accomplished by 
use of chemical sterilizing agents alone. 
In case of failure in the quality control tests 
for sterility in the bottling line samples, direct 
microbiological investigations have to be made 
at various control points of the bottling line. 
These include standard microbiological sam­
plings of airborne microbes in the bottling 
area and of bottle and cork washings. Also 
touch plates, or swabbings, of inaccessible ar-430 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
eas need to be made of the filter outlet, the 
filler centering bell and spouts, and of the 
hopper, chutes, and jaws of the corker. The 
facilities and procedures used in the quality 
control tests should also be scrutinized. See 
Neradt (1982) for more details. 
b. Integrity Testing of Membrane Filters 
The bubble point and forward-flow tests are 
used to ensure that the membrane filter is not 
defective and that it has been installed cor­
rectly. These tests are based on equations used 
in filtration research, and in the quality con­
trol of membrane production. Nevertheless, 
an examination of the equations involved is 
helpful for a better understanding of the intri­
cacies of membrane filtration. Recent reviews 
of these procedures have been given by Meier 
and Hoechlin (1989) and Emory (1989). 
The precise relationship between the pore 
size of the largest pore of the membrane and 
the minimum pressure required to force a gas 
bubble through this pore (that is, the bubble 
point pressure), is defined by the following 
equation: 
tlP = K40" cos Sid, (11.1) 
where tlP is the bubble point pressure, K is a 
correction factor for nonideal surface contact, 
0" is the surface tension of the liquid being 
tested, S is the angle between the tangent of 
the bubble and the surface of the membrane 
(not the angle between the slope of the menis­
cus at the top of the membrane pore and the 
side of the pore), and d is the diameter of the 
pore. This equation tells us two important 
things about the bubble point. First, since sur­
face tension is involved, it is important that the 
bubble point test be made with the same wine 
as to be filtered. The surface tension of 
ethanolic solutions is lower than that of water, 
and the bubble point will be correspondingly 
affected. Second, since the reciprocal of the 
diameter of the largest pore is involved, any 
flaw in the membrane or in improper setting 
of the cartridge, will provide a larger d, and 
thus a correspondingly lower bubble point. Of 
course, this is the basis of the test-if the bubble point obtained is lower than specified, 
something is wrong. Since something might go 
wrong during the filtration, it is recom­
mended that the bubble point test be carried 
out again at the end of the filtration-or 
during break periods in filtrations of long 
duration. 
The bubble point that should be observed 
for wines can be estimated from the relation­
ship between ethanol content and surface ten­
sion. For table wines, this results in bubble 
points that are approximately 30% lower than 
the corresponding water values. The tradi­
tional testing procedure involves the use of 
water for the initial determination to avoid 
effects of ethanol on the surface tension (and 
on the bubble point value). Most manufactur­
ers prefer the use of water values rather than 
product values, but this then requires that the 
filters be thoroughly rinsed with water at the 
end of a filtration in order to perform the 
postfiltration check. With clean membrane 
filters the bubble point is directly proportional 
to the surface tension and the ratio of bubble 
points will be in the ratio of the surface ten­
sion of the product to that of water. For stan­
dard table wines with 12% v /v ethanol, the 
bubble point at 20°C will be 49.5/73.0 times 
that of water, where 49.5 and 73.0 are the 
relative values of the surface tensions of the 
ethanol solution and of water respectively. For 
other ethanol contents, they can be estimated 
from the following relationship: 
BP20 wine = BP20 water 
*exp[2.722 + 57.83/(36.85 + E)] 
73.0 
(11.2) 
where E is the ethanol content in percent by 
volume, the exponential function is the rela­
tionship between the surface tension and 
ethanol content, and 73.0 is the correspond­
ing surface tension for water. 
For membrane installations with large sur­
face areas, the gas diffusion through the mem­
brane during the test can be significant and 
this leads to false bubble point determinations. In an alternative test, the bubble point is de­
termined by observing the change in the rate 
of gas permeation rather than the point of 
first bubble formation. A plot of the log of Q 
(the flow rate of gas through the membrane) 
against the log of I1P (the gas pressure against 
the wetted membrane) gives a straight line 
with a shallow slope (Figure 11-1), until I1P 
reached a certain point at which place there is 
an abrupt increase in the slope. This point of 
inflection is, of course, taken as the bubble 
point. The shallow slope at the lower pressures 
is the indication of gases coming through the 
membrane by diffusion through the liquid 
within the pores. With membranes of small 
surface area, this gas flow is negligible; but 
with membranes of very large surface areas, 
especially in cartridges with fluted mem­
branes, the diffusion flow becomes noticeable. 
The fast-forward test, involving this aspect, is 
based on a second equation: 
p . D . I1P . R . T . A . e Q=------MW'KH'L'P d (11.3) 
where Q is the volumetric flow rate of the gas 
(mL/s); p the density of the liquid (kg/m3); 
KH is the Henry's Law constant (atm) of the 
gas, D is its diffusivity (in m2/s); R is the gas 
constant (m3 atm/(mole K»; and T is the 
logO 
AP'=bubble point 
oL,~. -------
10gAP 
Fig. 11-1. The relationship between gas flow and pres­
sure difference of a membrane filter. The Bottling and Storage of Wines 431 
absolute temperature of the liquid (K). The 
membrane area is A (m2), e is the porosity 
(or void fraction) of the membrane; MW is the 
molecular weight; L is the length (m) of the 
liquid column through which the gas must 
pass, that is, the thickness of the membrane, 
and Pd, the downstream pressure. The poros­
ity is the fraction of the membrane volume 
that is not occupied by the membrane mate­
rial. It is to be noted that the size of any 
individual pore d is not included in this equa­
tion; that is, the gas flow can be substantial 
even before the legitimate bubble point is 
reached. With the initial production of these 
kinds of membranes, it was at first thought 
that the use of the bubble point test for them 
would become superfluous. However, with ex­
perience it was discovered that the size of the 
bubbles and the amount of diffused gas is 
usually qualitatively and quantitatively unlike 
the gas flow found when the pressure reaches 
that of the bubble point and beyond. Never­
theless, the use of the fast-forward test should 
be limited to personnel who have had experi­
ence with it and with the particular type of 
membrane to be tested. 
4. Charge-Modified Filter Media 
Many of the colloidal components involved in 
trace haze formation and membrane filter 
fouling are neutral or slightly negatively 
charged at wine pH. These are usually much 
smaller in diameter than the pore size of tight 
pads or membranes and are not removed from 
wine during these filtrations. There are, how­
ever, several fibrous materials which develop a 
surface charge under flow conditions, gener­
ally referred to as a zeta-potential and very 
fine negatively charged colloids can be cap­
tured and retained by this mechanism. It was 
the zeta-potential action of asbestos that made 
it a part of most filter preparation until the 
mid 1970s. Today, alternative polymeric substi­
tutes, commonly cellulose acetate or cellulosic 
fibers, are used in many filter pad formula­
tions and as a precoat and body feed compo­
nent in earth filtrations (Berg et al. 1986). The 
zeta-potential mechanism provides some ad-432 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
vantage in that there is an additional mecha­
nism for the removal of partially soluble mate­
rial, but it has some disadvantage in that it can 
contribute to physical instabilities in wines if it 
is not used correctly. A more complete discus­
sion of this topic can be found in Chapter 7. 
The properties of this type of media that 
are important to final filtrations and bottle 
stability can be summarized as follows. Firstly, 
the zeta-potential effect and its collection 
mechanism are only present when the wine is 
flowing across the fibers. Secondly, the ex­
haustion of this capturing effect is not related 
to the fouling of the filter and when it has 
been consumed there is no way to determine 
this either by preliminary testing or during the 
filtration. Thirdly, the zeta-potential generated 
is a function of wine velocity through the pad, 
pH, and temperature. While it is an advantage 
to be able to rinse the pad with water to 
recover most of the charge-modified effect, it 
can lead to problems if an acidic solution is 
used for rinsing between wines. 
The use of a charge-modified filter medium 
when the wine will continue immediately on 
to either a bottling line or a membrane filter 
is not recommended. There will be variations 
with time in the residual colloidal content 
during the filtration. Instead, the wine should 
be filtered as a batch into an intermediate 
tank and mixed to make it uniform before the 
filtration through the membrane filter and 
into the bottles. 
A more detailed discussion of the nature of 
colloidal properties, of complexes between the 
protein and peptide fractions and phenolic 
and polysaccharide components is discussed in 
Chapter 8. However, a special case of wine 
instability, in which the use of charge-modified 
filters presents a special concern, is that due to 
protective colloids. These colloid fractions are 
usually made up of a central core with an 
outer coating of a second component. These 
can be relatively stable in wine but they can be 
rendered unstable by depletion of the outer 
coating during charge-modified filtrations. The 
protection of cations (metallic or proteina­
ceous) by negatively charged polysaccharide components is the best example of such a 
situation. The resulting less-protected colloid 
fractions are then relatively unstable and again 
this effect often varies throughout a filtration 
run. 
5. Dissolved Gases in Wines 
Both nitrogen and oxygen are far less soluble 
in water (and wine) than carbon dioxide. At 
OQC their solubilities in water are 23.5, 48.9, 
and 1797.0 mLjL, respectively. Nitrogen is 
the preferred inert gas to be used in tank 
headspace, for some transfers and sparging 
and for displacing air from bottles immedi­
ately prior to filling. There is some practice of 
using argon as the inert gas for oxygen dis­
placement due to its low solubility and the fact 
that it is denser than air. The elimination of 
oxygen from the headspace of tanks is primar­
ily a volumetric displacement and this is not 
greatly enhanced by the density of the inert 
gas. The stripping of dissolved oxygen from 
wines is not improved by the use of argon 
since it depends on the partial pressure of 
oxygen in the inert gas, not the density of that 
gas. The additional expense of argon is diffi­
cult to justify given this understanding. 
The level of oxygen dissolved in table wines 
can be in the range of 6 to 9 mgjL when 
saturated, depending on the temperature, with 
higher levels at the lower temperatures. The 
solubility of oxygen in wine-like ethanol solu­
tions is described by: 
[°2 ]diss(mgjL) 
= exp [ -3.606 + 1713j(T + 273.3)], 
(11.4) 
where T is the temperature of the wine in QC. 
The effect of ethanol on oxygen solubility is 
slight, with an additional 4 to 5% being dis­
solved at wine strength and cellar tempera­
tures (Kutsche et al. 1984). 
The oxygen pickup that might have oc­
curred during final transfers should be low­
ered prior to bottling in one of several ways depending on the type of wine being pro­
duced. This can be done by either gas sparg­
ing with nitrogen or carbon dioxide, by hot 
bottling at temperatures in the range of 30°C 
to 40°C or the addition of oxygen-consuming 
components such as ascorbic acid or its iso­
mer, erythorbic acid. Since free S02 can only 
retard the rate of oxidation at acceptable lev­
els (see Chapter 12), the principle control lies 
in minimizing the level of oxygen in the wine 
at the end of the bottling operation. 
The level of dissolved carbon dioxide is 
important for reasons of sensory attributes, 
physical stability of the bottled wine due to its 
high solubility, and the response of that solu­
bility to temperature. This feature can lead to 
significant changes in the headspace pressure 
as the temperature changes and if bottled 
wines are not packaged with such changes in 
mind. The solubility of carbon dioxide in wines 
is described by: 
[C0 2 ]diss(g/L) 
= exp [ -7.288 + 2244/(T + 273.3)] 
(I1.5) 
where T is the temperature of the wine in 0c. 
Recommended levels of carbon dioxide for The Bottling and Stfffage of Wines 433 
bottled wines are in the range 0.2 to 0.5 giL 
for aged, red wines and 0.5 to 1.8 giL for 
lighter-pigmented and white wines (Miiller­
Spath 1982). 
The levels of CO2 and of 02 after various 
filling procedures is most influenced by wine 
temperature and gas exposure, with a wine 
temperature of 15°C leading to oxygen pickup 
in the 0.5 to 1.5 mglL range and that for 
carbon dioxide in the 0.2 to 0.4 giL range 
when exposed to air or gas flushing of equip­
ment. The level of CO2 in wine bottles is also 
important from both legal and analytical con­
siderations. Table wines made in the United 
States must contain less than 3.92 giL or 
additional tax must be paid. This level is about 
twice the saturation level under a CO2 
headspace at 20°C and ambient pressure or 
equal to that obtained under a CO 2 headspace 
at 1.5 atmospheres pressure at O°C. The solu­
bility of CO2 in dry wine under a CO 2 
headspace as a function of temperature is pre­
sented in Figure 11-2. The level of dissolved 
carbon dioxide in wines can be controlled by 
the use of nitrogen-carbon dioxide mixtures in 
which the levels of 1.0 giL CO2 can be ob­
tained at storage temperatures of O°C, 5°C 
or lOoC by the use of blends containing 
40%, 47%, or 54% CO2 in the mixture, 
respectively. 
3.50,.-----------------------, 
:J " ~ ,., 
:!: 
~ 
~ 2.80 
2.10 
1.40 
0.70 
0.00 '-----"'-------'------'------'------' 
-10 4 18 32 46 60 Fig. 11-2. The solubility of carbon 
Temperature (e) dioxide in dry table wine at various 
tern peratures. 434 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
An alternative description of CO 2 solubility 
in wines that includes terms for the effect of 
ethanol content and sugar level is that pro­
posed by Lonvaud-Funel and Matsumoto 
(1979): 
In(a;) = (7 X 1O- 5E -0.02905)T 
-0.0179E -O.OOl11S + 0.51912, 
(I l.6) 
where a; is the solubility coefficient of car­
bon dioxide in wine (on a volumetric basis, 
L/L) at T °C, where the ethanol content E is 
expressed in % by volume and the sugar con­
tent S is in giL. The solubility expressed as 
mg/L is obtained by multiplying the a value 
by 1977, the saturation value at O°e. 
6. Acidity Effects of Dissolved CO 2 
The contribution of dissolved CO 2 to the 
titratable acidity of the wine can be taken to 
be one proton for every molecule of the CO 2• 
At pH 8.2 (the titration end point) almost all 
of the dissolved CO 2 is in the bicarbonate 
form, while at wine pH it is present as car­
bonic acid. The saturation level of 1.5 giL 
CO 2 at 20°C and ambient pressure corre­
sponds to approximately 2.6 giL as tartaric 
acid in the titratable acidity of the wine. While 
this would be the saturation level found in 
wines held under a CO 2 headspace at ambient 
pressure, at the end of the ethanol and malo­
lactic fermentations, the levels are usually sig­
nificantly greater than the saturation levels. 
While this is the reason for using a hot-water 
titration procedure in the determination of 
the titratable acidity, it still provides a sensory 
contribution when wine at normal tempera­
ture is tasted. The desired levels of dissolved 
carbon dioxide in table wines are discussed in 
the previous section. 
Even at half of this level, the contribution 
in titratable acidity will generally be detectable 
in tasting. In sparkling wines, a correspond­
ingly higher contribution will be provided by 
the dissolved CO 2• Carbon dioxide also con-tributes, at relatively high levels, to a cooling 
and a prickling sensation in wines intended 
for thirst-quenching refreshments. 
7. Chemical Additives 
An alternative to the removal of yeasts and 
bacteria by microfilters is the use of antimicro­
bial chemicals such as sorbic and fumaric acids 
in addition to sulfur dioxide to inhibit micro­
bial activity. The trend of the past two decades 
has been away from such food additives and 
their future is increasingly questionable. Sor­
bic acid is generally added as the more soluble 
potassium or sodium sorbate and is effective in 
its undissociated form (pKa = 4.75), so that 
less is required for inhibition of most yeasts at 
lower pHs. Some yeasts are resistant to it so 
that it is not a comprehensive solution (see 
Chapter 9). It is usually at above threshold 
when used at the levels required for fungicidal 
action. Its use is illegal in Japan. It will not 
inhibit or kill bacteria, and bacterial activity, 
usually malolactic fermentation, in the pres­
ence of sorbate will produce the distinctive 
spoilage of a geranium off-odor (Crowell and 
Guymon 1975) (see Chapter 9). 
Fumaric acid (pKa = 3.05) can prevent bac­
terial growth, and it is the undissociated form 
that is the active component. It is far more 
effective at low pH values, at low concentra­
tions of bacteria and with appropriate amounts 
of free sulfur dioxide, where there is usually 
less need for it. It is not readily soluble but 
solutions can be prepared by the heating of 
malic acid and this approach leads to higher 
solubility. It is rarely used and regulations in 
the United States limit additions to less than 3 
giL in wines. A more complete discussion of 
its use can be found in Chapter 9. 
Diethyl dicarbonate (DEDC), also referred 
to as diethyl pyrocarbonate (DEPC), was previ­
ously used as a short-lived yeast-killing additive 
in wine (Ough 1983). It was banned more than 
20-years ago due to suggestions that urethane 
(at the tens of JLg/L level) was part of its 
breakdown products. The methyl analog, 
dimethyl dicarbonate (DMDC), has the advan-tage of not forming ethyl carbamate and has 
been approved for use in wines. 
DMDC has a desirable feature of undergo­
ing hydrolysis rapidly at wine pH and having 
no significant residual in the long term. The 
rate of hydrolysis is first order with respect to 
DMDC and has a half-time of 25 minutes at 
20°C and 60 minutes at lOoC. The commercial 
product has the trade name Velcorin and spe­
cial dosing units and handling techniques are 
required with its use. The dilemma with this 
additive is that while it is very effective at 
killing many strains of wine and spoilage yeasts, 
it is far less effective with the bacteria com­
monly found in wines. The levels required for 
various wine organisms are given in Ough et 
al. (1988). Since the microbial count in fin­
ished wines will be made up of both yeast and 
bacteria and the final filtration will remove the 
larger yeasts more readily than the bacteria, 
the level of any chemical addition should be 
directed toward that required for the bacteria 
rather than the yeasts. Like most microbial 
inhibitors, the actual concentration and effec­
tiveness after an addition is dependent on the 
number of cells present, with higher cell 
counts leading to significant adsorption and 
less than expected effectiveness. 
The selection of microfiltration with per­
pendicular flow membranes remains the most 
effective and desirable alternative to these 
chemical additions. The use of temperature 
for the killing of microorganisms, in particular 
the application of high-temperature short-time 
(HTST) treatments can be effective, but there 
are few studies of flavor changes associated 
with the treatment. One study has shown that 
hot bottling (tunnel pasteurization) can be 
used to stabilize wine in small bottles (375 mL) 
without detriment (Malletroit et al. 1991). 
B. BOnliNG OPERATIONS 
Bottling systems are made up of several com­
ponents and these are usually similar to bot­
tling operations for many other beverages. The 
main components of such systems generally The Bottling and Storage of Wines 435 
include the following: dedusting or rinsing 
units for bottles, filling machines (fillers), 
cork-inserting machines (corkers or cappers), 
labeling machines (labelers), and capsulating 
or foiling machines. 
The bottling line can vary from a manual 
operation in which several people may be han­
dling hundreds of bottles per hour to an auto­
mated line with two to three operators han­
dling several hundred bottles per minute. For 
many small wineries, the use of a mobile bot­
tling unit, even for sterile bottling, in which 
the entire bottling line is housed within a 
contractor's trailer, is preferable to maintain­
ing a technically inferior or similar but expen­
sive line for the time that it is used. Not only 
are the economics favorable for a small win­
ery, but such contractors usually have consid­
erably more experience in the operation of 
bottling equipment. 
Some lines are set up in a straight line, with 
materials flowing from one end to the other, 
while it is also common to use a V-shaped 
layout with the finished bottles being returned 
to a point close to where they were first 
dumped from their cartons. 
The major bottling components will gener­
ally be enclosed in a separate room specially 
designed for ease of cleaning (tiled floors and 
tiled or stainless steel paneled walls) and some­
times, a sterile atmosphere (positive-pressure, 
membrane-filtered air). Other considerations 
with respect to the bottling line will be the 
access of pallets and cases for both empty and 
full bottles and a restriction of nonessential 
foot traffic. 
1. Quality Control 
Quality control procedures are instigated to 
ensure that the sterile bottling has been car­
ried out successfully; that is, that all of the 
unwanted microorganisms, yeast, or bacteria 
(Chapter 9), have been removed. It is impossi­
ble to be assured of absolute success, that all of 
the bottles are completely free from contami­
nation, without resorting to testing each bottle 
coming off of the line. Compromises are made 436 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
by testing a reasonably small proportion of the 
bottles. The extent of compromise is related to 
the previous experience of the production 
manager and the experience with the particu­
lar bottling line. 
Before discussing compromises, we must 
emphasize the importance of obtaining a posi­
tive bubble point test, both at the beginning of 
the bottling session and at its end. Since the 
bubble point test is only applicable for filtra­
tion with membrane filters, this recommenda­
tion in effect says that any filtration with depth 
pad filters ought to be followed by filtration 
through a bubble point-able membrane 
(Chapter 7). A correct bubble point test as­
sures that the membrane is not flawed, there 
are no pores of diameter greater than speci­
fied, and that the membrane has been in­
stalled correctly; but it tells nothing about the 
success of the sterilization treatment of the 
filter or of any of the equipment downstream. 
In a new installation, or with new person­
nel, it is reasonable to remove bottles from the 
line for testing very often, certainly at the 
beginning and end of the run, and after tem­
porary shutdowns and breaks, and several times 
an hour during the run. Indeed, when sterile 
bottling was first being introduced in Califor­
nia some 25 years ago, the dread of failure was 
compensated for by overzealously testing. With 
the spectacular success of this procedure, the 
production line managers are now content 
with much less sampling. One rule of thumb is 
to sample a dozen bottles of wine from every 
pallet, the bottles being removed at random. 
Earlier, the entire contents of the bottles were 
taken for testing, but nowadays it is more usual 
for only one or two filter holders (one-half 
bottle) of wine to be passed through the test 
membrane. 
The bottled wines removed from the line 
are sometimes tested for contamination imme­
diately or allowed to accumulate for several 
days and then tested all at one time. For the 
testing, the contents of the bottles are filtered 
under sterile conditions through a 47-mm-di­
ameter membrane. For this, the corks are re­
moved partway, with the use of a corkscrew, after the bottle neck (without capsule) has 
carefully been dipped into alcohol (methanol, 
isopropanol, or 70% ethanol) and flamed. The 
process is repeated until the cork is completely 
removed and the neck of the bottle is then 
directly flamed. The filter holder and screen 
can be easily sterilized in a boiling water bath 
for 15 minutes. The base of the holder is 
generally surface-sterilized with one of the 
above alcohols. Membranes usually are pur­
chased as sterile, but they can also be sterilized 
in boiling water. The membrane is then asep­
tically removed from the filter holder and 
placed on a nutrient medium. Agar plates can 
be used as the nutrient support medium, or 
hermetically sealable dishes, 47-mm diameter 
containing a filter pad onto which 1.5 mL of 
sterile medium is added, are also available. 
Malt extract or wort media are used for testing 
for yeast, and apple Rogosa medium for bacte­
ria (Appendix F). For detection of yeast, the 
plates can be incubated at room temperature 
or up to perhaps 30°C; but for bacteria, the 
plates should be incubated no higher than 
23°C to 25°C. Colonies from healthy wine yeasts 
will appear in three days; bacterial colonies, 
especially lactic acid bacteria, may take as long 
as 10 days. Colonies from sorbate- or DMDC­
treated wines will require five days of incuba­
tion. For success, no colonies should appear. It 
has been demonstrated that if only a few 
colonies appear, the wine is probably stable, 
since the chances of growth in the unfavorable 
environment of wine is much less than that on 
the nutrient medium used for testing (Neradt 
1982). However, in fact, it is routine to find 
the formation of no colonies. If that is the 
baseline, then the sudden appearance of a few 
colonies should be cause for alarm. Common 
situations giving negative quality control re­
sults are: inadequate heating of the filter and 
equipment, having the bottling equipment too 
far from the filters, failure to sterilize makeup 
water used to cool the equipment, an O-ring 
in a filling spout not receiving sanitization and 
sterilization treatments, failure to heat contin­
uously (sterilize) the corker jaws, and inade-quate sanitation or sterilization of the microbi­
ologicallaboratory space and equipment. 
Procedures for rapid detection, at least for 
yeast, have been presented (Kunkee and Ner­
adt 1974), but none of them has shown itself 
suitable as routine procedures under produc­
tion situations. 
2. The Bottling Room 
The bottling room should be a dustfree envi­
ronment' often maintained under a positive 
pressure of filtered air. This will usually re­
quire at least some outside air to be intro­
duced rather than simply recycled air. The 
growth of organisms on the exposed surfaces 
of bottling equipment has not been shown to 
be a major contribution to contamination at 
the point of bottling but the reduction in the 
number of airborne organisms would seem to 
reduce this risk (Neradt 1982), especially if the 
bottling area is close to the fermentation ar­
eas. The room is generally tiled or lined to 
allow for the ongoing wash down and sanitiza­
tion on a daily basis. The most critical stage of 
the bottling operation is the path of the open 
bottles from the filler to the corker since they 
are least protected against airborne contami­
nation at this point. Stainless steel canopies 
are relatively inexpensive and their use to cover 
the distances between the units is recom­
mended. Another advantage of an isolated 
bottling room is to control the insensitive foot 
traffic: production and management person­
nel and visitors. 
3. Dedusting and Rinsing of Bottles 
Bottles generally contain some dust and/or 
cardboard fibers when they are first removed 
from their cartons. These fibers can be re­
moved by inverting the bottle and directing 
either an air or a water jet into the bottle 
neck. This is usually done with the aid of an 
inverting railing on a continuous line or rins­
ing by hand as part of a manually operated 
line. When made, glass bottles are sterile and 
may retain both cleanliness and sterility if 
shrink-wrapped and quickly used. The Bottling and Storage of Wines 437 
The use of sulfite solutions for the sanitiz­
ing of bottles was widely practiced for many 
years, but is rarely used today, being replaced 
with peracetate solutions, which generate per­
oxide, or by ozone-generating systems (Zurn 
1982). Sterilization is particularly important 
with reused bottles (Cooke 1977) or new bot­
tles that have been stored, and with certain 
water supplies, including make-up water used 
for cooling after heat sterilization of equip­
ment. 
4. Filling Machines 
The fillers on continuous lines take the bot­
tles, which are supplied from the moving trays 
on one side and positioning them underneath 
the filling head to initiate the filling proce­
dure. The bottle is usually taken in a complete 
circle from the point where it was picked up. 
The base plate, on which the bottle stands, is 
raised (triggering the valve in the spout to 
open) and filled. Once filled, the bottle is 
lowered, shutting off the valve in the filling 
spout, and repositioned on the conveyor and 
advanced toward the corker. Most fillers can 
be modified with interchangeable parts to 
handle a range of bottle shapes, heights, and 
volumes. 
Fillers can be separated into gravity, coun­
terpressure, and vacuum/counterpressure 
units. As the names imply, they employ dif­
ferent forcing conditions prior to and during 
the filling operation. The gravity fillers range 
from small hand-operated units (with six to 10 
spouts) to large continuous units (40 to 120 
spouts). The filling is driven by the difference 
in level between the wine in the filler bowl 
and that in the bottle by a syphoning action. 
Some special problems with reinfection have 
been found with pressure fillers (Neradt 1982), 
especially with older ones where there is a 
pressure release into the atmosphere. This air 
movement and atomizing of wine can lead to 
contaminated valves. The newer pressure fillers 
have release channels with central outlets 
which avoids this misting into the surround­
ings. Other problems can occur when the wine 438 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
temperature is much lower than that of the 
ambient air. Here condensed water can form 
in the filler bowl, run down the side, and 
collect at the centering bell rim. In the pres­
ence of stray yeast, this will infect the valves 
and the bottle mouth rims. It is also important 
that in fillers, where the wine from overfill 
bottles is returned to the filler bowl, that the 
return bowl be small to allow a quick washout 
of any chance contamination from a stray con­
taminated bottle. 
Counterpressure units seal the bottle once 
it has engaged with the filling spout and the 
pressurized wine enters the bottle against a 
restricted gas-venting valve. The vacuum/ 
counterpressure units draw a vacuum to assist 
in the filling before the application of pres­
sure to slow the final stage of the filling opera­
tion. 
While the total volume of wine in each 
bottle must be that indicated on the label, 
overfilling is wasteful and leads to problems 
with the control of headspace pressures (the 
gas volume between the wine level and the 
closure) after corking. The customer often dis­
likes bottles showing different fill heights, so it 
is important to provide stated volumes, uni­
form fill levels, and normal headspace in each 
bottle. Too much headspace suggests a short 
fill or leakage since filling, while too little 
headspace ( < 5 mL in a 750-mL bottle) leads 
to wider pressure fluctuations with tempera­
ture changes and perhaps cork movement or 
leakage. 
5. Corks and Cork-Insertion Machines 
Corks, with their highly irregular surfaces, are 
essentially impossible to sterilize, even those 
which have had the cavities smoothed. Never­
theless, the current treatment of exposure of 
damp corks in sealed plastic bags to S02-gas 
seems to inactivate any wine-related microor­
ganisms. However, this treatment has little or 
no influence on the penchant for individual 
corks to induce the formation of a corky taint 
in wine (Chapter 10, Section G). The corker takes the filled bottle and posi­
tions it beneath the corking plunger. The jaws 
of the corker then radially compress the cork 
to a diameter that is smaller than the bottle 
neck. It then pushes the compressed cork into 
the bottle neck with a single swift plunging 
movement, so that the top of the cork is flush 
with the top lip of the bottle. The corkers 
differ according to whether they do or do not 
draw a vacuum in the headspace before the 
cork is inserted. If a vacuum is not drawn, the 
cork displacement (typically 14 to 15 mL for a 
24-mm long cork) will cause compression of 
the headspace into approximately half its orig­
inal volume with a corresponding increase in 
bottle and headspace pressure of close to two 
atmospheres. In vacuum corkers, the vacuum 
is often of the order of 0.3 to 0.6 atm so that 
the resulting pressure is approximately atmo­
spheric after the cork is in place. 
The surfaces of the cork jaws, recelvmg 
spilled wine from overfilled bottles, can be 
one of the most serious sources of recontami­
nation of corks-and thus of infections of 
sterile wines. To prevent this, corkers are 
available with corker jaws designed to be 
heated, to about 80 to 90°C, either by means 
of hot air blowers, internal electric elements, 
or gas burners (Neradt 1982). The heated jaws 
can be an anathema to production line man­
agers since they tend to cause problems with 
paraffin- or silicon-treated corks. In our expe­
rience the most common source of microbial 
instability in supposedly sterile wine has come 
from the discontinuation of heating of the 
cork jaws. 
6. Labeling Machines 
The traditional labeling operation involves the 
attachment of a glued front label to the bottle, 
with options for the attachment of a back label 
and a neck label as required. The continuous 
labeling machines remove a bottle from the 
line and during one cycle of its rotation, pick 
up a label, apply glue to it, place the label 
onto the bottle, then brush it around the bottle before returning the bottle to the main 
line. There is now a general trend toward the 
use of self-adhesive labels, peeled from a back­
ing paper as they are applied, which eliminate 
the troublesome gluing operation. More ad­
vanced labeling units can also place a back 
label and/or a neck label on during this 
operation. 
7. Capsulators and Foiling Machines 
The final operation is to place a plastic cover 
(or metal foil) over the corked bottle and to 
shrink this tight by heat (or to spin tighten it) 
onto the bottle. The placement is often done 
by hand even for automated lines while the 
spinning (or shrinking) is done by the ma­
chine. The cap or foil are applied for cosmetic 
reasons and to cover any wine that may have 
splashed or mold growth that may appear on 
the outer face of the cork. 
8. Gas Exchange During Bottling 
Operations 
The transfer of wine from the bottling tank 
through a final filter and into the filler bowl 
can be accomplished with a minimum of oxy­
gen pickup if steps are taken to control the gas 
atmosphere which contacts the wine. The con­
cerns relate to the pickup of oxygen from the 
air during the filling of the bottle and prior to 
the cork insertion. The wine will most likely 
dissolve oxygen while it streams down the bot­
tle wall or as it falls to the base in a fine spray. 
Under these conditions, the transfer area be­
tween the wine and the gas in the bottle is 
many times that experienced at any other time 
during the bottling operations. The mass 
transfer is greatly enhanced by the turbulent 
nature of the wine and gas movements as the 
wine displaces the gas from the bottle. 
The partial pressure of the oxygen in the 
gas phase in the bottle is a crucial factor in the 
extent of the oxygen pickup during this opera­
tion, as is the temperature of the wine. The 
rate of absorption will be proportional to its 
partial pressure. The temperature will influ­
ence the oxygen solubility in the wine, with The Bottling and Storage of Wines 439 
lower temperature having higher solubility. It 
is rare for a wine to reach the saturation level 
of 6 mg/L, but between 0.5 and 1.5 mg/L is 
not uncommon under commercial conditions. 
The release of dissolved carbon dioxide by 
the wine during filling can serve to reduce the 
partial pressure of oxygen and the gas transfer 
from the headspace. However, it will generally 
be more of a problem due to bubble forma­
tion and foaming than a benefit. Gas release 
can be controlled during filling conditions by 
employing lower wine temperatures, but often 
there will be significant heating of the wine 
from the ambient temperature of the bottles, 
especially for the wine near the wall. The 
previous handling of the wine will determine 
if the carbon dioxide is near saturation levels 
at this point. 
The bottle may have been previously flushed 
with nitrogen or carbon dioxide and the com­
pleteness of air volume displacement will de­
termine the partial pressure of oxygen that 
exists in the headspace during the filling pro­
cess. The ideal gas-displacement situation is 
one in which the nitrogen is delivered to the 
base of the bottle and there is practically no 
back-mixing of the air with the incoming gas. 
This would essentially be a piston-like displace­
ment with a minimum of back-mixing leading 
to a theoretical requirement of one volume of 
nitrogen per bottle, and the oxygen concen­
tration in the bottled wine would be practi­
cally zero. The actual gas-flushing operation 
attempts to accomplish this ideal situation with 
fast gas-flushing rates. The turbulent gas flow 
causes significant mixing of the incoming and 
exiting streams, reducing the effectiveness of 
the gas used. The time available for flushing is 
also a consideration with high-speed lines. Un­
der a completely intermixed situation, the 
oxygen concentration would only fall to about 
one-third of its initial value with the first vol­
ume of nitrogen. A second volume, if used, 
would reduce the concentration to about 
one-ninth of its initial value. The oxygen con­
centration in air can give rise to approximately 
9 mg/L of dissolved oxygen in cold wine if it 
reaches equilibrium. The single-volume, tur-440 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
bulent gas flush would result in a potential of 
3 mg/L dissolved oxygen to remain after fill­
ing, while after a second volume of flushing, 
the potential concentration would be at the 
I-mg/L level. A third volume should lead to 
potential concentrations of 0.3 mg/L after 
filling. 
The actual gas-flushing operation achieves 
something between the ideal and the mixed 
situations depending on the type of filler em­
ployed, and there is a range of partial satura­
tion conditions experienced in practice. 
The impact of oxygen pickup can be seen 
in the potential for 1 mg/L of oxygen to react 
with as many as 8 mg/L of total sulfur dioxide 
over the weeks that follow. The change in the 
free sulfur dioxide content will depend on the 
extent to which acetaldehyde has been formed 
during this period and the proportions of free 
and bound forms in the wine. Many wines will 
have the capability to consume the majority of 
the oxygen present by reactions with the phe­
nolic components (or added ascorbate) in the 
days that follow bottling. If, however, there has 
been significant previous oxidation during 
winemaking, the short-term, oxygen uptake 
capacity of the wine will be lowered and more 
of the oxygen consumption will fall to the slow 
reaction with the available sulfite and a corre­
sponding increase in the amount of total sul­
fur dioxide lost. 
9. Pressure in Filled Bottles 
The pressure that exists within filled bottles is 
influenced by several factors. In table wines, 
the major factor is the gas compression that 
occurs when the cork is inserted without an 
adequate vacuum being drawn in the neck of 
the bottle. The amount of this compression is 
determined by the volume from the wine sur­
face to the top of the bottle and the length of 
the cork. The other contributions are the 
compression of the headspace gas caused by 
thermal expansion of the wine, the vapor pres­
sure that results from the ethanol and water 
components, and the increase in headspace 
gases associated with any previously dissolved gas that comes out of solution at warm tem­
peratures. (In sparkling wines, bottle pressure 
is dominated by the dissolved carbon dioxide 
that has been kept in solution during corking 
by the use of dose-to-freezing temperatures 
and the avoidance of the filling step.) 
a. Pressure Changes due to Increasing 
Temperature 
The effect of an increase in wine temperature 
is to increase the bottle pressure, but these 
pressure changes have several components to 
them. The first is that of liquid expansion 
causing an increase in headspace pressure, a 
pressure increase for noncondensable gases 
due to temperature alone, increases in the 
vapor pressures of ethanol and water due to 
temperature, and changes in the solubility of 
carbon dioxide causing further gas pressure. 
The increase in vapor pressure with tempera­
ture due to the water and ethanol components 
is shown in Figure 11-3. 
For example, the thermal expansion of wine 
is approximately 0.8% between 20°C and 40°C 
and in a 750-mL bottle, such a rise in wine 
temperature results in a loss in headspace vol­
ume of 6 mL and increasing headspace pres­
sure by l.67 times, assuming a headspace of 15 
mL. The effect of temperature on the non­
condensable gas components is 303/293, or a 
7% increase from that at 20°C, as predicted 
from the ideal gas law, while the effect on the 
vapor pressures of water and ethanol is an 
exponential function with an approximate 
change of threefold over this range. The com­
bined effects of these components can be eval­
uated for particular situations with perhaps 
the largest variation coming from the extent 
of the dissolved carbon dioxide concentration. 
b. Pressure Changes due to Decreasing 
Temperature 
In contrast to the above situation, wine cool­
ing will generally lead to lower bottle pressure 
as wine contraction and carbon dioxide solu­
bility increase. An exception to this trend oc­
curs when the wine begins to freeze and sig­
nificant volume expansion and gas release oc-100 
90 
c;, 80 I 
E 70 .s 
Q) 60 
5 50 I/) 
I/) 
£ 40 
8. 30 
III 20 > 
10 
0 
10 15 20 25 30 35 
Temperature (C) 
• 5%v/v 0 12%v/v • 
EtOH EtOH 
cur due to ice formation. This can result in 
more than twice the pressure increase that 
results from warming a bottle from 20°C to 
30°C. This is because the ice formed has essen­
tially no gas in it and this gas displacement has 
a greater effect than the increased gas solubil­
ity at lower wine temperatures. For this reason, 
the precaution to consumers against storing a 
bottle of sparkling wine, with its wired stopper, 
at freezing temperatures to avoid an explo­
sion, must be taken seriously. 
c. Pressure Changes due to Freezing 
The analysis of the cooling of bottles (Section 
C.2 of this chapter) suggests that when ex­
posed to freezing conditions, the narrowest 
section of the bottle, that is the neck, will be 
the quickest to cool and the first to form ice if 
the surroundings are cold enough. If the 
freezing continues until bottle breakage, the 
most likely location for bottle fracture is 
around the base, depending on the uniformity 
of the bottle wall thickness. The rupture can 
also occur at the wall, depending on the freez­
ing conditions and the wall thickness. 
The expansion of water into ice as it freezes 
will cause the headspace to be reduced by 
approximately 60 mL in a 7S0-mL bottle, but 
this will rarely happen since the resulting in-The Bottling and Storage of Wines 441 
40 45 
Fig. 11-3. The effect of tempera-
20%v/v ture on the vapor pressure of table 
EtOH wine. 
crease in ethanol content will lower the freez­
ing point of the remaining solution. Even at 
partial freezing, of say 10%, the headspace will 
be reduced by 6 mL due to ice formation 
alone. With a headspace of IS mL this will 
cause the internal pressure to increase by a 
factor of at least 1.67, into the range that will 
cause corks to be displaced. 
The headspace gas itself will be slightly re­
duced in volume due to temperature effects, 
but this represents only about a 7% reduction 
in pressure from 20°C to O°C. The dissolved 
carbon dioxide will be released from the 10% 
that forms ice while the pressure rise and 
lower temperature will cause more to become 
dissolved. Its solubility increases by approxi­
mately SO% over this temperature range. As a 
result, it is common for the cork to be partially 
pushed from the bottle, breaking its seal and 
conformation to the bottle wall and permitting 
air influx and possible wine leakage when 
thawing occurs. 
10. Other Operations 
A number of other operations may be associ­
ated with the bottling sequence, but these 
usually have to do with the logistics of ware­
housing and shipping rather than bottled wine. 442 The Bottling and Storage oj Wines 
These range from stacking cases in particular 
ways (bottles placed upright versus bottles in­
verted), to coding labels, bottles, and cases 
with bottling dates and times, and to stacking 
cases in preferred arrangements or providing 
plastic wraps or bands to retain the cases within 
the stack during pallet movements. 
The practice of stacking cases so that the 
bottles are in the upright position is widely 
practiced and it aims to provide time for the 
cork to recover into its new shape and to allow 
any excess bottle pressure to be vented. The 
time required for the cork to fully recover 
from its compression at the time of insertion is 
generally thought to be less than 24 hours. 
The alternative practice of stacking cases so 
that the bottles are in the inverted position 
immediately after bottling also has its practi­
tioners, where the belief is that the wine con­
tact with the cork is to keep the cork moist 
and swollen, without the possibility of drying 
out. The control of cork moisture content to 
narrow limits (typically 5 to 8% by weight) 
prior to use involves storage in atmospheres 
that are less than saturated (50 to 70% relative 
humidity). The headspace within an upright 
bottle would be essentially at 100% relative 
humidity after corking and the corks would 
normally be in a swollen state even without 
wine contact. The other consideration of bot­
tle inversion is the detection of faulty closures 
due to poor quality or damaged corks or ex­
cess bottle pressures caused by malfunctioning 
filling or corking machines. 
C. TRANSPORT AND STORAGE 
CONSIDERATIONS 
The most dramatic effects on bottled wines 
are those due to the storage temperature and 
the daily and seasonal variations associated 
with it. There is a tendency to generalize about 
the rates of reactions proportional to tempera­
ture over small temperature ranges such as 
those involved in the storage of wines (5° to 
30°C). While wine will not deliberately be held 
at temperatures above 20°C, there will be in-stances when wines placed in rooms or vehi­
cles during the summer months can experi­
ence temperature in excess of 40°C for signif­
icant times. 
1. Storage Temperature and Temperature 
Variations 
While the rates of the most reactions that can 
occur in bottled wines increase with increasing 
temperatures, this effect is nonlinear and in­
creases quickly even at moderate tempera­
tures. The rate of oxygen uptake reactions in a 
white wine (Ribereau-Gayon 1933) can been 
shown to have an apparent activation energy 
of 137.7 kJ/mole, while those associated with 
browning reactions in white wines (Berg and 
Akiyoshi 1956, Ough 1985) have apparent acti­
vation energies of 66.4 and 74.6 kJ/mole re­
spectively. The rates of decline in total sulfur 
dioxide (Ough 1985) display apparent activa­
tion energies of 35.7 in red wine and 13.4 
kJ/mole in white wine, indicating different 
rate-controlling steps in the disappearance re­
actions. Based on these values, and our gen­
eral knowledge of the exponential nature of 
the rate increases, the relative rate of these 
reactions at temperatures other than 10°C can 
be estimated and these are summarized in 
Table 11-1. For the browning reaction in white 
wines, the rates are 2.5 to 3 times faster at 
20°C then at 10°C and between 15 and 20 
times faster at 40°C. The rates of decline in 
total sulfur dioxide in the red wine is consid­
erably more sensitive to warmer temperatures 
than that of the white wine, but both rates are 
less sensitive to temperature than the brown­
ing reactions. Although bottled wines will not 
usually have significant oxygen in the 
headspace, the greatly enhanced rate of oxy­
gen uptake at warmer temperatures shows why 
even short exposures to air can be disastrous 
during the storage or transfer of wines. 
Of additional concern is the cyclic variation 
in storage temperatures, especially those on a 
daily basis. The concern is one of variations in 
bottle pressure caused by the thermal expan­
sion and contraction and secondary effects of The Bottling and Storage of Wines 443 
Table 11-1. The relative rates of selected reactions in wines. 
Reaction 5 
Oxygen Uptake (Ribereau-Gayon 1933) 0.35 
Browning (Berg and Akiyoshi 1956) 0.60 
Browning (Ough 1985) 0.57 
Total S02 decline: 
Red wine (Ough 1985) 0.76 
White wine (Ough 1985) 0.90 
I Relative to the rate at lODe. 
increased vapor pressure and diminished car­
bon dioxide solubility associated with such cy­
cles. The development of bottle pressures of 
the order on 0.67 to 1.0 atm over ambient are 
approaching those which can cause cork 
movement or headspace venting and the sub­
sequent cooling and contraction and vacuum 
can then permit air introduction to the bottle. 
2. The Cooling and Warming of Bottled 
Wine 
Typical examples of heat transfer to and from 
bottled wines would be those associated with 
the chilling of a bottle in a refrigerator (or an 
ice bucket) or the exposure of bottles to heat­
ing or cooling conditions during transporta­
tion or storage in a warehouse. The following 
methods are presented to enable the calcula­
tion of the cooling (or warming) times for 
bottles exposed to sudden changes in the tem­
perature of the surroundings. 
There are two calculation procedures that 
can be used to evaluate these unsteady heat 
transfer situations. Both assume that the con­
ductive heat transfer within a bottle is essen­
tially that found in an infinite cylinder, that is 
a cylinder that is several diameters long. The 
first is the use of a graphical solution known as 
a Gurney-Lurie chart to estimate the tempera­
ture at some radial position, such as at the 
center of the bottle as a function of time. The 
second is the use of a series expansion to 
compute the average temperature of the wine 
in the bottle as a function of time. Relative rate 1 at temperature (OC) 
15 20 25 30 35 40 
2.76 7.35 18.9 47.3 114 270 
1.63 2.62 4.13 6.42 9.84 14.9 
1.73 2.94 4.91 8.07 13.0 20.7 
1.30 1.67 2.15 2.72 3.43 4.28 
1.10 1.21 1.33 1.46 1.59 1.73 
a. Gurney-Lurie Charts 
These charts were developed by Gurney and 
Lurie in (1923) to provide a graphical solution 
of the unsteady heating or cooling of fluids 
and solids in various geometries and for con­
ditions under which there is significant resis­
tance to heat transfer at the surface. Repro­
ductions of these charts can be found in most 
heat transfer texts such as Kern (1950) and 
Foust et al. (1960). These charts plot the di­
mensionless temperature in terms of the radial 
location in the cylinder and the ratio of sur­
face resistance to thermal conduction. They 
are especially useful in estimating the time for 
which annular sections of a bottle have been 
at a given temperature. 
There are a number of other graphical 
solutions of the unsteady heat transfer to 
shapes such as cylinders and spheres, but these 
usually assume that there is negligible resis­
tance to transfer at the surface. Examples of 
these are the solutions of Carslaw and Jaeger 
(1959) (also given in Bird et al. (1960» from 
which the temperature distributions within the 
bottle (the cylinder) could be estimated for 
the special case of water or liquid immersion. 
More useful versions of the Gurney-Lurie 
charts that estimate the centerline tempera­
ture and provide better interpolations are the 
Heisler charts (Hayes 1987). These charts are 
redrawn versions the original Gurney-Lurie 
charts but use a linear temperature scale that 
provides better graphical estimates at short 
times. 444 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
The unsteady cooling of a wine bottle can 
be approximated to that of a cylinder whose 
length is several times its diameter. The Gur­
ney-Lurie (and Heisler) charts relate the frac­
tional temperature change (usually expressed 
as the dimensionless temperature change) at 
some radial position, to a variable referred to 
as the dimensionless time. The dimensionless 
temperature is the temperature change that 
has occurred at some time divided by the 
ultimate temperature change at steady state. 
Q) 
5 ... 
III 
~ 
Q) r 
Ul 0.1 
Ul 
Q) 
C 0 iii 
~ 
(5 
0.01 
0.00 
1.00 
Q) O.BO ~ ... III 
li; c. E 0.60 Q) r 
Ul 
Ul 
Q) 
C 0 0.40 
.~ 
Q) 
E 
(5 0.20 
Fig. 11-4. The cooling cUlVes for 0.00 
the average temperature of a wine 0.00 
bottle-Dimensionless form: (a) 
Logarithmic scale; and (b) Linear 
scale. The dimensionless time is simply the actual 
time scaled by a group of system properties 
whose product has the units of time. Two 
graphical charts, both for estimating the cen­
ter temperature of bottles, one for water-bottle 
conditions and the other for air-bottle condi­
tions, are presented in Figure 11-4a. 
For a bottle, the dimensionless time is ex­
pressed as 4atjD2, where D is the diameter of 
the bottle and a is the thermal diffusivity 
(kj pjC p) of the wine. The temperature at any 
0.20 0.40 0.60 O.BO 1.00 
Dimensionless Time 
(a) 
0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 
Dimensionless Time 
(b) radial position in the bottle can be expressed 
in terms of the outside water temperature Tw 
and the initial wine temperature Ti• For the 
estimation of the temperature at the center of 
the cylinder Te' the dimensionless tempera­
ture becomes: 
Another dimensionless group known as the 
Nusselt number NNu' becomes the parameter 
that determines the way in which the tempera­
tures within the bottle will change with time. 
The Nusselt number is the product of the heat 
transfer coefficient at the outer wall h to the 
thermal conductivity of the wine k scaled by 
half the diameter: 
NNu = hD /(2k), 
and it represents the ratio of the rate of trans­
fer of energy at the bottle surface to that 
accumulating within the bottle by conduction. 
If the wine is considered to be at the ambi­
ent temperature of 15°C and in a standard 
750-mL glass bottle, the cooling time will be 
measured from the time at which it is im­
mersed into the ice bucket, which is assumed 
to contain a mixture of water and ice that has 
equilibrated at O°C. The physical and thermal 
properties can be found in Table 11-2. 
NNu = hD/2k = 81.5 
Y = [To -TJ/[T o -Ts] = 0.674 and 0.332 
from chart, Figure 11-4a 
[ 4a t /D 2] = 0.177 and 0.329 
that is 132 and 246 minutes. 
By repeating the calculation for other times, 
the temperature pattern for the center of the 
bottle can be obtained as shown in Figure 
11-4b. It can be seen that under these condi­
tions, the center temperature has fallen to 
lOoC and 5°C at times of 132 and 246 minutes. The Bottling and Storage of Wines 445 
Table 11-2. Properties and Conditions Used In Bottle 
Cooling Example. 
Wine thermal conductivity, k = 0.536 W /mK 
Wine heat capacity, Cp = 4.50 kJ/kgK 
Wine density, p = 990 kg/m 3 
Wine thermal diffusivity, a = k/(C p p) = 1.20 X 10-4 
Bottle diameter, D = 75 mm 
Initial wine temperature, Ti = 15°C 
Water-ice temperature, Tw = O°C 
Surface heat transfer coefficient, h, = llOO W /m 2K 
The corresponding cooling of a bottle placed 
in a refrigerator, where the air is now the 
cooling medium and a much poorer transfer 
coefficient is in effect, indicates that the cen­
ter temperature will require 280 minutes to 
fall to lOoC and 640 minutes to reach 5°C. The 
same kind of calculation can be performed for 
other radial positions within the bottle by us­
ing the appropriate position line on the origi­
nal charts. 
b. Series Expansion Approach 
Of more general interest in many situations is 
the relationship between the average tempera­
ture of the wine and time. This can be calcu­
lated from the analytical solution for the un­
steady heat transfer into a long cylinder (Mc­
Cabe and Smith 1967). The dimensionless 
temperature is now written: 
and its value at any time is calculated from the 
following series: 
Y = 0.692 exp( -5.7* NF) 
+ 0.131 exp( -30.5* NF) 
+ 0.0534exp( -74.9* Np,) + ... (11.7) 
where Np'o = a t/R2 and is known as the 
Fourier Number, and Tav is the average tem­
perature of the cylinder. The Fourier number 
represents the ratio between the rate of en­
ergy transfer by conduction to that accumulat­
ing within the element. 446 The Bottling and Storage of Wines 
10 
0.1 ~ ______ ~ ______ ~ ______ ~ ________ L-____ ~ 
Fig. 11-5. The cooling CUIVe for 
the average temperature of wine 
bottle (initially at 15°e into ice 
water at OOe). (a) Logarithmic scale; 
and (b) Linear scale. Q 
Ql 5 ... 
\\I ... 
Q) 
Co E 
Q) 
I-o 
15 
12 
9 
6 
3 
The calculated temperature history for the 
cooling of a bottle, that has been placed in an 
ice bath, is presented in dimensionless form in 
Figure 11-5a and as actual temperature in Fig­
ure 11-5b. In this example, with an initial 
temperature of 15°C, the average wine tem­
perature has fallen to approximately lOoC af­
ter 18 minutes and to approximately 5°C after 
96 minutes. This is considerably faster than 
the decline in center line temperatures that 24 48 72 96 120 
Time (Mirutes) 
(a) 
24 48 72 96 120 
Time (Mirutes) 
(b) 
require 132 and 246 minutes to reach these 
values. The average temperatures are heavily 
weighed by the colder temperatures of the 
regions closer to the wall. 
The calculation procedures presented here 
can be generally applied to analogous heating 
conditions. Conditions under which the heat­
ing or cooling is by air rather than water 
should only use the graphical approach since 
there will be significant resistance to heat transfer at the surface. A surface coefficient of 
approximately 5 W /m2/K is suggested for this 
case. 
D. REFERENCES 
BERG, H. W., and M. AKIYOSHI. 1956. "Some factors 
involved in browning of white wines." Am. I 
Enol. 7:1-7. 
BERG, L. A., G. GODWIN-AuSTIN, and K. ROBISON. 
1986. "Effect of fibers added during pressure 
leaf filtration on the membrane filterability of 
white table wines." Am.J.Enol. Vitic. 37:174-178. 
BIRD, R. B., W. E. STEWART, and E. N. LIGHTFOOT. 
1960. Transport Phenomena, p. 357. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons. 
CARSLAW, H. S., and J. C. JAEGER. 1959. Conduction of 
Heat in Solids, p. 200. Oxford, UK: Oxford Uni­
versity Press. 
COOKE, M.]. 1977. "Encore! and bottle recycling." 
Wines & Vines (4):48. 
CROWELL, E. A., AND ]. F. GUYMON. 1975. Wine 
constituents arising from sorbic acid addition 
and identification of 2-ethoxy-3,5-diene as a 
source of geranium-like off odor. Am. I Enol. 
Vitic. 36:97-102. 
EMORY, S. F. 1989. "Principles of integrity-testing 
hydrophilic microporous membrane filters." 
Pharm. Technol. 13(9):68-77 and (10):36-46. 
FOUST, A. S., L. A. WENZEL, C. W. CLUMP, L. MAUS, 
and L. B. ANDERSEN. 1960. Principle of Unit opera­
tions, p. 133, New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
GURNEY, H. P., and]. LURIE. 1923. "Charts for 
estimating temperature distributions in heating 
or cooling solid shapes." Ind. Eng. Chem. 
15:1170-1172. 
HAYES, G. D. 1987. Food Engineering Data Handbook, 
p. 55. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
KERl'l, D. Q. 1950. Process Heat Transfer, p. 653. New 
York: McGraw-Hill. 
KUNKEE, R. E., and F. NERADT. 1974. "A rapid 
method for detection of viable yeast in bottled 
wines." Wines & Vines (12):37-39. 
KUTSCHE, 1., G. GILDEHAUS, D. SCHULLER, and A. 
SCHUMPE. 1984. "Oxygen solubilities in aqueous 
alcohol solutions." J. Chem. Eng. Data 
29:286-287. The Bottling and StMage of Wines 447 
LEE, T. H., G. H. FLEET, P. R. MARK, D. WIBOWO, 
C. R. DAVIS, P.]. COSTELLO, and T. HENICK-KLING. 
1984. "Options for the management of malolac­
tic fermentation in red and white table wines." 
Proc. Int 7. Symp. on Cool Climate Viticulture and 
Enology, Corvallis, OR, pp. 496-515. 
LEE, T. H., and R. F. SIMPSON. 1992. "Microbiology 
and chemistry of cork taints in wine." In Wine 
Microbiology and Technology, G. H. Fleet, Ed. Chur, 
Switzerland: Harwood Academic Publishers. 
LONVAUD-FuNEL, A., and N. MATSUMOTO. 1979. "Le 
coefficient de solubilite du gaz carbonique dans 
les vins." Vitis 18:137-147. 
MALLETROIT, v., ].-X. GUINARD, R. E. KUNKEE, and 
M. ]. LEWIS. 1991. "Effect of pasteurization on 
microbiological and sensory quality of white 
grape juice and wine." I Food Process. Preserv. 
15:19-29. 
MCCABE, W. L., and]. C. SMITH. 1967. Unit Opera­
tions of Chemical Engineering, 2nd ed. p. 291. New 
York: McGraw-Hill. 
MEIER, P. M., and]. HOECHLIN 1989. Microbial 
stability with membrane cartridge filtration. 
Pract. Winery Vineyard (Nov IDec): 25-30. 
Ml:LLER-SPATH, H. 1982. "Die Rolle der Kohlen­
saure beim Stillwein." Weinwirt. 118:1031-1037. 
NERADT, F. 1982. "Sources of reinfections during 
cold-sterile bottling of wine." Am. I Enol. Vitie. 
33:140-144. 
OUGH, C. S. 1983. "Dimethyl dicarbonate and di­
ethyl dicarbonate." In Antimicrobials in Foods, A. 
L. Branen and P.M. Davidson, Eds., pp. 299-325. 
New York: Marcel Dekker. 
OUGH, C. S. 1985. "Some effects of temperature 
and S02 on wine during simulated transport or 
storage." Am.I Enol. Vitic. 36:18-2l. 
OUGH, C. S., R. E. KUNKEE, M. R. VILAS, E. BORDEU 
and M.-C. HUANG. 1988. "The interaction of 
sulfur dioxide, pH and dimethyl dicarbonate on 
the growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Montrachet 
and Leuconostoc oenos MCW." Am. I Enol. Vitic. 
38:279-282. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON,]. 1933. Contribution des oxyda­
tions et reductions dans les vins. Application a 
l'etude du vieillissement et des casses. Doc. the­
sis, Bordeaux, France: University of Bordeaux. 
ZURN, F. 1982. "Flaschensterilisation mit Own." 
Weinwirt. 118:793-794, 796-797, 800. CHAPTER 12 
THE ROLE OF SULFUR DIOXIDE IN WINE 
While the use of sulfur dioxide in winemaking 
dates back to Egyptian and Roman times 
(Bioletti 1912), the full extent of its role in 
wines is often not understood because of the 
multiple activities and reactions in which it is 
involved. It had been estimated in the early 
part of this century that the free forms pos­
sessed approximately 50 times the antiseptic 
activity of the bound forms (Bioletti 1912). 
While most of the sulfur dioxide found in 
wine is deliberately added to the must, juice, 
or wine, significant amounts are normally pro-sulfur dioxide is involved in these reactions is 
crucial to the selection of appropriate timing 
and level of addition as well as the evaluation 
of any alternative treatment options that would 
replace it in winemaking. 
This chapter attempts to describe the be­
havior of sulfur dioxide by developing a com­
prehensive description of its properties in or­
der to provide a better understanding of its 
physical, chemical, and microbial activities. 
duced by yeast during ferm)entation {Weeks A. PHYSICAL PROPERTIES 
1969; Bidan and Collon 1985 . 
The physical and chemical reactions of 
interest include the killing and growth inhi­
bition of unwanted bacteria and yeast, the 
inhibition of phenoloxidase activity, the in­
teraction with wine phenols in the competitive 
oxidation, the reaction of sulfite with perox­
ide, the binding of acetaldehyde, pyruvate, 
keto-glutarate, and the anthocyanin pigments, 
and the delay of brown pigment development. 
A knowledge of the rate and extent to which 
448 1. Solubility 
Sulfur dioxide is a gas under normal condi­
tions with a molecular weight of 64.06, a den­
sity of 2.93 giL at O°C, and a normal boiling 
point of -10°C. It is very soluble in water with 
solubilities ranging from 228.3 giL at O°C, 
162.1 at 10°C, and 112.9 at 20°C to 78.1 at 
30°C. Expressed another way, approximately 
40 volumes of gas are soluble for each volume of water at 20°C and 55 volumes of gas for 
each volume of water at lOoC. The solubility at 
O°C is 77,918 mLjL compared to those of 
oxygen, nitrogen, and carbon dioxide which 
are 48.9, 23.5, and 1797.0 mLjL, respectively. 
The influence of temperature on the solu­
bility is considerable and is of practical impor­
tance. It can be used to advantage in the rapid 
preparation of solutions from sulfur dioxide 
gas at lower temperatures. It is also important 
to realize that a solution saturated at lOoC, but 
warmed up to 20°C has the potential to release 
approximately 50 gjL (or some 15 volumes of 
gas per volume of solution) of sulfur dioxide 
gas. When sulfur dioxide solutions are held in 
a gastight vessel this can cause the internal 
pressure to rise to several atmospheres and to 
present a hazard on opening, while in a loosely 
capped container it will result in considerable 
leakage of the gas into the surroundings. It is 
for these reasons that sulfur dioxide solutions 
should be stored in suitable pressure canisters 
in a low-temperature environment and in a 
ventilated situation. Alternatively, solutions can 
be made up from either gas or crystalline 
forms as needed, rather than being stored for 
extended periods of time. The exposure limits 
for sulfur dioxide in the workplace are given 
in Appendix E. The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 449 
2. Ionization 
Sulfur dioxide, when dissolved in water, is a 
moderately strong acid with pKa values of 1. 77 
and 7.20 (King et al. 1981), while in juices and 
wines there are solvent and ion effects. The 
first dissociation constant in the presence of 
ethanol and ions has been calculated (Us­
seglio-Tomasset and Bosia 1984) and shown to 
be closer to 2.0 under wine-like conditions. A 
more complete discussion of the solvent and 
ion effects can be found in Chapter 15. In 
aqueous solutions, the pH at saturation is ap­
proximately 0.8 at 20°C. The dissociation 
curves are shown in Figure 12-1. 
The hydrated S02' or the molecular form, 
is the major form at pH values below 1.86. 
Previously this undissociated form was called 
sulfurous acid and written H2S0 3 which is not 
correct (Schroeter 1966; Wedzicha 1984). The 
first ionized form, HS0S-, is referred to as the 
bisulfite or monohydrogen sulfite ion and is 
the major form at pH values between 1.86 and 
7.18 (and consequently in juices and wines). 
The second ion form, SO; , the sulfite ion, is 
the dominant species at pH values above 7.18. 
There is spectral evidence of other ion forms 
such as the metabisulfite ion (S20';=) in aque­
ous solution (Schroeter 1966) but there is little 
100~------------------~=-~-----=~------' 
80 
60 
40 
20 I 
I 
I 
/ 
",. 
0 
0 
-- 502aq I 
I 
I 
2 I 
I / 
/ 
3 4 
pH 
H503-./ .....---
5 6 
-- 503= , , 
\ 
/ 
/ \ 
\ 
/ 
7 
Fig. 12·1. The dissociation diagram 
for sulfur dioxide in 14%(v/v) 
ethanol, 80-mM ion strength. 450 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
data about the extent of this formation and 
published ionization constants and other cal­
culated physical properties have been devel­
oped considering this to be insignificant. 
The percentage of free sulfur dioxide in 
various ion forms in the range of interest to 
winemaking is shown in Table 12-1 together 
with the level of free S02 required to main­
tain a molecular concentration of 0.825 mgjL. 
The basis for wanting to maintain the molecu­
lar concentration at such a level is discussed in 
Section B.1 below. 
a. The Molecular Form 
The molecular form is the most important 
species in winemaking since it is the form 
responsible for the primary antimicrobial ac­
tivity which prevents spoilage (Rahn and Conn 
1944; Rhem 1964; Macris and Markakis 1974; 
Beech et al. 1979; King et al. 1981), for the 
capturing of hydrogen peroxide and for the 
sensory detection of sulfur dioxide in the 
headspace vapor above wines that contain it. It 
is this volatility that is responsible for the evap­
orative loss of sulfur dioxide from wines (and 
solutions) either under the natural circum­
stances of barrel aging or the deliberate con­
ditions established as part of the aeration oxi-
Table 12-1. The percentage of sulfur dioxide fonus in 
solution at various pH values. Solution conditions are 
14% v / v ethanol and 80 mM ion strength. 
Free S02 for 
Molecular Bisulfite Sulfite 0.825 mgjL 
pH S02 ion ion molecular 
2.7 10.5 89.5 0.00283 7.85 
2.8 8.54 91.5 0.00364 9.66 
2.9 6.90 93.1 0.00467 12.0 
3.0 5.56 94.4 0.00596 14.8 
3.1 4.47 95.5 0.00759 18.5 
3.2 3.58 96.4 0.00964 23.1 
3.3 2.87 97.1 0.0122 28.8 
3.4 2.29 97.7 0.0155 36.0 
3.5 1.83 98.2 0.0196 45.1 
3.6 1.46 98.5 0.0248 56.5 
3.7 1.16 98.8 0.0312 71.1 
3.8 0.924 99.0 0.0394 89.3 
3.9 0.736 99.2 0.0497 112.0 
4.0 0.585 99.4 0.0627 141.0 dation method of analysis (Ough and Amerine 
1988). Within the pH conditions of wine, there 
is only a very small fraction of the free sulfur 
dioxide in this form and this changes by more 
than an order of magnitude over the range of 
wine pH, from 6% at pH 3.0 to 0.6% at pH 
4.0. As a result, the antimicrobial effectiveness 
and peroxide trapping capability of a free 
sulfur dioxide concentration of 6.6 mgjL at a 
pH of 3.0 is equivalent to that of 20 mgjL at 
pH 3.5 or 66 mgjL at pH 4.0. The same 
concept can be applied to the headspace con­
centration' which is directly related to the 
molecular concentration rather than the free 
sulfur dioxide level. 
b. The Bisulfite Ion Form 
It is the bisulfite form that is perhaps the least 
desirable from the enologist's viewpoint be­
cause it is involved in the binding with the 
carbonyl oxygen atoms of acetaldehyde, the 
keto acids, glucose, quinones, and with the 
four position carbons of monomeric antho­
cyanins of red wines making them colorless. 
These products are responsible for the bound 
fraction of the total sulfur dioxide found in 
wine. These bisulfite addition compounds are 
generally referred to as hydroxy-sulfonates and 
their binding properties are discussed in more 
detail below. At wine pH, that is the range 3.0 
to 4.0, the proportion of free sulfur dioxide in 
the bisulfite form rises from 94 to 99%, with a 
maximum at approximately pH 4.5. 
One positive aspect of the formation of the 
hydroxy-sulfonates is the binding of acetalde­
hyde that is formed as a result of oxidative 
reactions that occur during aging. Acetalde­
hyde will be bound by any free sulfur dioxide 
present and will be unable to contribute to the 
aroma of the wine. By adding sulfur dioxide, 
oxidized aldehydic white wines can often be 
made more acceptable. Another advantage is 
the interference in the development of brown 
pigments from phenolic compounds, both un­
der conditions of enzymatic oxidations in 
juices and chemical oxidations in wines. It is 
thought that it either reduces the first oxida­
tion products (quinones) back to phenols and/or forms quinone addition products that 
are colorless. In either case, it interferes with 
and delays the development of the brown 
melanin polymers. Both of these reactions re­
sult in the loss of free sulfur dioxide. The 
reduction of quinones results in the formation 
of sulfate and a loss of total sulfur dioxide, 
while the formation of additional compounds 
leads to an increase in bound sulfur dioxide (if 
the compound is hydrolyzable) or a loss in 
total sulfur dioxide if it is not hydrolyzable. 
The hydroxy-sulfonates are generally con­
sidered not to be microbially and chemically 
active forms, yet they account for the majority 
of the total sulfur dioxide found in wines. 
They are especially troublesome when it comes 
to the analysis of the free sulfur dioxide con­
tent. This is because some of them display 
hydrolysis rates that are significant in the time 
of analysis and this results in an overestimation 
of the actual free sulfur dioxide pool in wine. 
One recent study of the inhibition of the 
phenoloxidase enzyme (Sayavedra-Soto and 
Montgomery 1986) concludes that it is the 
bisulfite form that is responsible for the irre­
versible inactivation and inhibition of this en­
zyme. Using labeled sulfite, in the pH range 4 
to 7, it could be shown that the sulfite was 
released from the enzyme complex after the 
inactivation. This suggests that exposure and 
contacting alone might be adequate for the 
inactivation of this enzyme in juices and there 
may be nonresidue approaches that can be 
used for this treatment in the future. 
c. The Sulfite Ion Form 
This is the antioxidant form and it is at very 
low concentrations under wine pH conditions. 
While the sulfite ion reacts rapidly with oxy­
gen in aqueous systems at higher pH, its ability 
to consume dissolved oxygen at wine condi­
tions is limited by the very low concentrations 
of the ion, typically at the 1-to 3-JLM level and 
perhaps a slowing of the rate due to the pres­
ence of ethanol. One study of sulfite oxidation 
under model wine conditions (Poulton 1970) 
showed that the time required for the con­
sumption of half of one saturation of oxygen The Rnle of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 451 
was close to 30 days. Unfortunately, this is not 
comparable to the rate of consumption with 
natural wine constituents where the half-time 
has been shown to be approximately two days 
for a white wine and presumably less for a 
red wine. As a result, there is essentially no 
oxygen-consuming capability provided by free 
sulfur dioxide under wine conditions. The re­
action of the molecular form with hydrogen 
peroxide, however, appears to be much faster 
than that of the sulfite form with oxygen 
(Halperin and Taube 1952). It is this reaction 
that is responsible for the quenching of the 
peroxide produced during the oxidation of 
certain phenols and the retardation of ac­
etaldehyde formation and browning in wines. 
The sulfite is thought to react with quinones 
to form monosulfonates under wine pH condi­
tions (Lu Valle 1952). 
3. Volatility 
The vapor phase concentration above solu­
tions containing free sulfur dioxide is the most 
important feature from the evaporative loss 
and the sensory point of view. The vapor pres­
sure is proportional to the concentration of 
molecular form in the solution and not simply 
the free sulfur dioxide concentration. As a 
result, the vapor phase concentration at pH = 
3.0 is three times that of the same solution at 
pH 3.5 and 10 times that of the solution at 
pH = 4.0 (Table 12-1). 
The relationship between the concentra­
tion of the molecular form in solution and the 
partial pressure in the vapor is generally ex­
pressed by Henry's Law: 
(12.1) 
where VP is the vapor pressure of sulfur diox­
ide in mm of mercury; KH is the Henry con­
stant, and [S02]m is the molecular sulfur diox­
ide concentration in the liquid, expressed as 
giL. The Henry constant is a measure of the 
volatility of a component and is useful in this 
context for understanding the evaporative loss 
and odor of sulfur dioxide in juices and wines. 452 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
Some references (e.g., Sherwood (1925) and 
Foust et al. (1960» note that sulfur dioxide 
does not obey Henry's Law, but these original 
measurements have not been corrected for 
the influence of concentration on the ioniza­
tion and pH of the resulting solutions. The 
Henry constants calculated from these mea­
surements are based on total solution concen­
trations and are not based on the molecular 
sulfur dioxide concentrations. The data of 
Sherwood (1925), when corrected for the con­
centration and ionization effects, provide the 
calculated values of this constant at several 
temperatures, as shown in Figure 12-2. Aque­
ous solutions do obey this equation at concen­
trations greater than 1 giL, but there is a 
need for more complete data at levels below 
this, which include typical wine levels. Sher­
wood's data indicated that at 20°C, the Henry 
constant is approximately 540 for concentra­
tions between 500 mg/L and 100 giL, but 
increases to 1100 at 200 mg/L. The actual 
value at concentrations as low as 25 to 50 
mg/L is not presently known, although the 
pattern would suggest that the Henry constant 
would be greater than 1000. Data for the 
solubility of sulfur dioxide in ethanol solutions 
is also needed. 
The influence of temperature on the 
volatility, KH, is well described by the follow-ing relationship: 
[ -3587 ] KH = 1.759 X 108 exp , (12.2) T + 273.3 
where T is the temperature in DC. This rela­
tionship indicates that the volatility doubles 
for a temperature increase of 20°C and can be 
used in phase separation calculations and de­
sign procedures for processes aimed at remov­
ing sulfur dioxide from wines and juices. 
4. Sensory Thresholds 
As noted above, it is the molecular form of the 
free sulfur dioxide in wine that is in equilib­
rium with the vapor or headspace above the 
wine. For this reason, the sensory contribution 
of a particular free sulfur dioxide content is 
both temperature- and pH-dependent. Re­
ported thresholds for sulfur dioxide are 10 
ppm in air, and 15 to 40 mg/L in wine 
(Amerine and Roessler 1983), although since 
the molecular form is involved, this would 
depend on the pH. There appears to be con­
siderable variation in the detection threshold 
concentration for sulfur dioxide among indi­
viduals, with some people having much less 
ability to detect or identity it. 
The effect of temperature on the vapor 
pressure of sulfur dioxide is especially impor-
3000.-------------------------------~r_----, 
Fig. 12-2. The effect of tempera­
ture on the Henry constant for 
sulfur dioxide. :J ...... 
Ql g 
...... f 
.5 
+' C 
III +' I/) c 0 
U 
>. E 
~ 2400 
1800 
1200 
600 
0 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 
Temperature (C) tant for sensory considerations. It forms a basis 
for the well-known practice of serving wines 
that are low in pH and high in free sulfur 
dioxide at colder temperatures in order to 
suppress the headspace concentration of this 
component. 
5. Preparations 
The most convenient form in which to pre­
pare and add sulfur dioxide is in the form of 
concentrated aqueous solutions, usually either 
5 or 10% by weight. These can be made up 
from gaseous sulfur dioxide by sparging into 
chilled water or on a weight basis by the direct 
addition of liquid S02 using a set of scales. It 
can also be made from the addition of salts, 
commonly as potassium metabisulfite, since 
acidic conditions such as those in a juice or 
wine are needed to release S02 from such 
salts. 
The preparation using gaseous sulfur diox­
ide should be made by bubbling the gas into a 
partially filled closed container, but vented 
with a filling tube. The gas is introduced into 
cold water through a stainless steel porous 
sparging tube. The vapor from the vessel vent 
should be trapped in a lime solution because 
of the personal hazards associated with this gas 
at these concentrations. A saturated solution 
at 20°C contains 11.3% S02 by weight; this 
solution is convenient for the preparation of 
10% working solutions. The use of colder wa­
ter will favor the solubility and reduce the 
vapor phase concentration since the vapor 
pressure is approximately halved for each 20°C 
decrease in the temperature. 
Preparations made from stored metabisul­
fite and sulfite salts are unreliable due to the 
rapid oxidation of sulfite to sulfate if the salt is 
exposed to the moisture and oxygen of the air. 
The salts are alkaline in their own solutions 
and will quickly lose sulfite due to oxidation at 
these conditions. 
a. Density Determination 
The concentration of sulfur dioxide in the 
working solution is commonly determined by The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 453 
a density measurement, typically using a hy­
drometer, and the reference densities are 
shown in Table 12-2 (Willson et al. 1943), 
although other data is available (Schopper and 
Aerny 1985). 
This method is subject to errors from the 
density contribution of existing dissolved salts 
unless distilled or completely deionized water 
is used. It also requires a temperature mea­
surement for a correction at temperatures 
other than 20°C. The sample volume required 
for such a determination is usually between 
100 and 200 mLs. The density at 20°C has 
been expressed as the apparent Brix, so that 
the hydrometers generally available to wine­
makers can be used for these determinations. 
The density method cannot be used with 
the preparation from salts unless additional 
corrections are made for the density contribu­
tion of the cations introduced. For example, 
with potassium metabisulfite, K2S20S' the ex­
tract contributed by the potassium ions will be 
almost 40% of the density reading. 
Table 12-2. The density of sulfur dioxide solutions 
at 20°C. 
Sulfur Dioxide 
concentration Solution Apparent 
(% Weight) densityl degrees Brix 
0.5 1.001 0.30 
1.0 1.003 0.92 
1.5 1.006 1.53 
2.0 1.00S 2.15 
2.5 1.011 2.76 
3.0 1.013 3.36 
3.5 1.016 3.96 
4.0 LOIS 4.56 
4.5 1.020 5.16 
5.0 1.023 5.76 
5.5 1.025 6.35 
6.0 1.02S 6.94 
6.5 1.030 7.53 
7.0 1.032 S.ll 
7.5 1.035 8.69 
8.0 1.037 9.27 
S.5 1.039 9.84 
9.0 1.042 10.42 
9.5 1.044 10.99 
10.0 1.047 11.56 
1 Source of data: Willson et al. (1943). 454 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
b. Spectrophotometric Determination 
An alternative method of establishing the con­
centration of sulfur dioxide in the working 
solutions is to measure the absorbance of a 
sample of the solution with a UV-visible spec­
trophotometer. The cuvette should be sealed 
to prevent sulfur dioxide vapors from escaping 
and causing damage to the instrument. 
The absorbance at a wavelength of 295 nm 
is related to the concentration of the molecu­
lar form with insignificant contributions from 
the bisulfite and sulfite forms. The molar ex­
tinction of the molecular form has been deter­
mined to be 297.89, while that of the bisulfite 
ion is 1.13 (Tenscher 1986). The concentra­
tion can be determined by diluting a sample 
into the range of 0 to 1 absorption units (or 0 
to 2 or 0 to 5, depending on the spectropho­
tometer used), referring to Table 12-3 and 
correcting for the dilution factor. This method 
is not interfered with by the presence of ions 
from any salt preparation or those present in 
the water used, is less sensitive to temperature, 
and requires a much smaller sample to be 
drawn for testing, typically 1 to 2 mL. 
The relationship between the concentra­
tion of dissolved sulfur dioxide and ab­
sorbance at 295 nm is based on a prediction of 
the pH of aqueous sulfur dioxide solutions 
together with the calculation of the molecular 
and bisulfite forms from the first ionization 
equation by ignoring the second dissociation. 
The absorbance is not linear with the sulfur 
dioxide concentration due to the more exten­
sive ionization in the more dilute solutions. 
The calculation also assumes that there are no 
significant basic salts in the water such as car­
bonates or phosphates. 
The effect of temperature on this estima­
tion procedure is primarily that of the dissoci­
ation constants and it is quite small when 
compared to those involved with the density 
determination. The need for dilute solutions 
can be avoided by using thin I-mm pathlength 
cells. The absorbance of typical working solu­
tions can then be determined directly and will 
be far less sensitive to the interferences noted Table 12-3. Calculated absorbances of dilute sulfur 
dioxide solutions at 20°C. 
Sulfur Dioxide Absorbance 
(giL) Solution pH at 295 nm 
0.10 2.84 0.041 
0.20 2.57 0.140 
0.30 2.42 0.278 
0.40 2.32 0.444 
0.50 2.24 0.633 
0.60 2.18 0.840 
0.70 2.13 1.061 
0.80 2.09 1.296 
0.90 2.05 1.541 
1.00 2.02 1.796 
2.00 1.81 4.680 
above. Figure 12-3 provides the absorption val­
ues at 295 nm for working concentrations of 
sulfur dioxide solutions based on the calcula­
tion procedure outlined above. 
B. CHEMICAL PROPERTIES 
1. Antimicrobial Action 
The antimicrobial activity of sulfur dioxide in 
wines and juices is due primarily to the molec­
ular form, although there is some evidence of 
weaker secondary effects due to the acetalde­
hyde-bound sulfur dioxide species. There are 
a number of studies that have investigated the 
antimicrobial action of sulfur dioxide and most 
have used wine organisms. Unfortunately, most 
of them have been performed in defined me­
dia without ethanol, some at pH values of 4 
and above, and several have involved short­
term exposure but enumerated after two or 
three days of plate growth. 
There are studies that have shown a loss of 
cell viability while others show an inhibition of 
growth. In several yeast studies there is an 
initial delay or enhanced lag phase due to the 
presence of free sulfur dioxide, but this is 
usually followed by growth at normal rates 
once this phase is completed (SchanderlI959). 
In many of the studies, the initial conditions of 
sulfur dioxide levels are established, but not The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 455 
2.00 3.00 
5 5 1.60 2.80 
E c 
10 1.20 2.60 01 
N 
..., ~ ra 
Q) 0.80 2040 g 
ra 
~ 
(/) 0040 2.20 .0 « 
0.00 .-=:!!'----'- __ ----' ___ ....I....-__ ----'-__ ~ 2.00 
0.00 0.20 0040 0.60 0.80 1.00 
Concentration (gill 
• Absorbance o pH 
monitored throughout the experiments and 
rarely analyzed at the end. As a result, effects 
such as bisulfite binding by cell products and 
evaporative loss have not been taken into ac­
count and the effects observed are usually 
attributed to the initial concentration. 
There are age-related effects on the sensi­
tivity of wine yeast strain to sulfur dioxide and 
it is presumed that this is generally true of 
wine bacteria and other spoilage organisms. In 
winemaking, the applications will range from 
the prevention of growth of existing cells in 
juices and musts where there is no ethanol to 
the prevention of growth or the killing of 
existing populations of spoilage organisms in 
wines after the malolactic fermentation. Cruess 
(1912) observed differences in the sensitivity of 
different yeasts and bacteria to added sulfur 
dioxide, and in the following sections the stud­
ies relating to yeast and bacteria will be con­
sidered separately. 
a. Yeast 
The studies involving yeasts have been in bet­
ter agreement as to the role of the molecular 
form. The mechanism(s) of the killing action 
is not clear, although there are several sugges­
tions and several effects have been demon­
strated in vitro. As mentioned previously, some Fig. 12-3. The estimated ah­
sorbance and pH of aqueous sulfur 
dioxide solutions. 
studies have shown an increase in the delay 
before growth and this may be due to the 
secretion of components such as acetaldehyde 
or keto acids until the sulfur dioxide is bound 
and then normal growth begins (Minarik 
1978). The age of the culture also has a dra­
matic effect on the susceptibility with late ex­
ponential or transition cultures showing far 
more resistance than early exponential cul­
tures (Schimz 1980; Katchmer 1990). 
The study by Macris and Markakis (1974) 
used labeled sulfur dioxide to show that its 
removal from the solution by Saccharomyces 
was rapid (in less than two minutes). The ef­
fect of concentration followed a Michaelis­
Menton type of curve and they assumed that 
this was evidence of enzyme-mediated trans­
port and uptake. However, binding of any of 
the forms to sites on the outer membrane 
could also show such a time scale and the 
same response to concentration. They also 
showed that the amount of binding was pro­
portional to the molecular sulfur dioxide con­
centration. Schimz and Holzer (1979) pro­
posed that sulfur dioxide was binding to a 
membrane-bound ATPase causing uncon­
trolled loss of cellular ATP and, hence, cell 
viability. Cell membrane binding rather than 
transport is supported by the studies of Ana-456 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
cleto and Van Uden (1982), who reported the 
presence of multiple binding sites. Other stud­
ies have concluded that it is the molecular 
form that enters the cell by diffusion (Strat­
ford and Rose 1986), but the temperature 
responses of the transport rates do not sup­
port this. They found the fastest rates of up­
take at the lowest concentrations and the tem­
perature dependence was not what would be 
expected of a diffusion-controlled mechanism. 
The toxicity associated with the acidic forms 
of sulfite solutions was noted in early studies 
by Miiller-Thurgau and Osterwalder (1915) 
and Perry and Beal (1920), although attribut­
ing it to the molecular form appears to be a 
later realization by Rahn and Conn (1944) and 
Vas (1949). In studies with Saccharomyces cere­
visiae, Rhem and Wittmann (1962) concluded 
that the molecular form was several hundred 
times more toxic than the bisulfite form. The 
viability experiments of Macris and Markakis 
(1974) involved contact times of between five 
to 30 minutes, followed by washing and plat­
ing for three days at 30°C. They demonstrated 
a relationship between molecular concentra­
tion and loss of viability, as have King et al. 
(1981) and Uzuka and Nomura (1986) with 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae using washing and plat­
ing methods. 
Of particular interest to winemakers is the 
level of molecular sulfur dioxide that is neces­
sary for the prevention of growth of typical 
wine yeast and bacteria. The existence of dif­
ferent survival patterns of log-phase growing 
cells and stationary-phase cells to sulfite has 
been noted with yeast (Schimz 1980) and at 
conditions similar to those in wine (64 mgjL 
S02 and pH of 3.35). The recommended lev­
els are based on estimates of the killing con­
centration with adjustments for the cell count 
and medium from which they were derived. 
Table 12-4 summarizes the level of molecular 
sulfur dioxide required to eliminate viable 
yeast. The absence of good mathematical de­
scriptions of the rate of killing prevent the 
analysis of alternative concentration-time com­
binations that would lead to the more effective 
use of sulfur dioxide. Table 12-4. The molecular sulfur dioxide requirements 
for control of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
Author(s) 
Macris and Markakis 
(1974) 
Minarik (1978) 
Beech et al. (I 979) 
King et al. (1981) 
Sudraud and Chauvet 
(1985) 
b. Bacteria Medium 
medium 
juice 
model wine 
medium 
wine Molecular S02 
(mg/L) 
1.3 
6.4 
0.825 
1.56 
1.5 
The literature concerning the antibacterial 
properties of sulfur dioxide is more compli­
cated than that for yeast. There are several 
studies indicating a more significant contribu­
tion due to the bound forms (Fornachon 1963; 
Lafon-Lafourcade and Peynaud 1974; Hood 
1983) and some evidence that levels of free 
sulfur dioxide can inhibit growth without any 
decline in viability (Hammond and Carr 1976), 
while at higher levels declines in viability are 
observed. 
It is important to realize that in addition to 
the effect of either free or bound forms of 
sulfur dioxide on the survival of many bacte­
rial strains, there is an extra contribution due 
to pH alone in many of these studies. There 
are no direct comparisons of the effects of pH 
on the growth and viability of these organisms 
so that our comments are limited to the role 
of the molecular and bound forms. Clearly, 
any reference to the antimicrobial activity of 
free sulfur dioxide in wines must include a 
description of the pH conditions that also 
exist. 
Early suggestions that acetaldehyde-bound 
sulfur dioxide might be inhibitory to bacteria 
came from Bioletti (1912), Fornachon (1963), 
and Rhem, Wallnofer and Wittmann (1965). 
In a high-pH (4.2) supplemented juice medium 
Fornachon found inhibition of the growth of 
Lactobacillus hilgardii and Leuconostoc mesen­
teroides when an excess of acetaldehyde was 
present. These organisms consumed some of 
the acetaldehyde present, releasing free sulfur dioxide that prevented further growth. How­
ever, a strain of Lactobacillus arabinosus failed 
to grow in the presence of 100 mgjL bound 
sulfur dioxide. Lafon-Lafourcade and Peynaud 
(1974) found effects on both growth and malo­
lactic fermentation due to both free and bound 
sulfur dioxide at pH of 4.8. Under wine condi­
tions (pH = 3.5), they found that 10 mgjL of 
acetaldehyde-bound sulfur dioxide reduced 
growth significantly, but not completely, while 
at the 30-mgjL level, loss of viable cells oc­
curred. They found the malate degradation by 
a Leuconostoc gracile (L. Oenos) to be more 
affected by both forms than that of a Lacto­
bacillus hilgardii and the bound form to be 
about half as effective as free sulfur dioxide. 
Mayer et al. (1975) found Leuconostoc oenos 
to be especially sensitive to levels of aldehyde­
bound sulfur dioxide in the 20 to 60 mgjL 
range. 
The bacteriostatic effect at levels of free 
sulfur dioxide below 1.5 mgjL molecular was 
observed over three days with Lactobacillus 
plantarum at pH values of 3.4 and 4.0 (Ham­
mond and Carr 1976). Hood (1983) demon­
strated that as little as 6 mgjL of acetalde­
hyde-bound sulfur dioxide was inhibitory to 
growth of a Leuconostoc oenos, Lactobacillus bre­
vis and Pediococcus pentosaceus at low pH (3.4). 
He also showed that the Leuconostoc oenos was 
more susceptible to the presence of acetalde­
hyde-bound sulfur dioxide, but this could have 
been due to the release of free sulfur dioxide 
on the consumption of acetaldehyde or its 
sensitivity to the bound form. 
The most significant studies of the loss of 
cell viability are those in which short-term 
viability reductions were measured for a range 
of wine-related organisms (Beech et al. 1979). 
They determined the levels of sulfur dioxide 
required to reduce a nongrowing yeast (or 
bacterial) population by 10,000 viable cellsjmL 
over a 24-hour period. These experiments were 
conducted in buffered solutions at 10% v jv 
ethanol, and the values reported are generally 
applied to table wines of 12 to 14% v jv ethanol 
without any correction, due to our limited 
understanding of the effect of ethanol. The The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 457 
investigation showed that a molecular level of 
0.825 mgjL was required for one Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae strain and the levels required 
by other test organisms are presented in Table 
12-4. 
The higher levels required for particular 
strains of Zygosaccharomyces bailii and Lacto­
bacillus plantarum (Table 12-5) are not used 
since they are of less importance in wine 
spoilage owing to the effects of ethanol. The 
sensitivity of the spoilage yeast Brettanomyces to 
sulfur dioxide is the major feature in the con­
trol strategy for this organism in wines today. 
These aspects are covered in more detail in 
Chapter 9. Additional information concerning 
the antimicrobial effects of sulfur dioxide can 
be found in the reviews by Ough (1983), Beech 
and Thomas (I985), and Romano and Suzzi 
(1992). 
c. Short-Term Viability Reduction 
There are apparently no published values of 
the corresponding killing requirements at 
other ethanol levels or for a number of the 
more common wine bacteria. These would be 
particularly useful for the improved microbial 
protection of low-ethanol and fortified wines. 
It would also provide a more quantitative ap­
proach to the conditions required to prevent 
the malolactic fermentation in certain wines as 
well as the better protection of wines after it. 
The results of two other studies of the 
short-term survival of yeast indicate the above 
recommendations (0.825 mgjL molecular) to 
be conservative since typically more than half 
of the yeast viability was lost within the first 30 
minutes at a concentration of 0.80 mgjL 
Table 12-5. Examples of the molecular sulfur dioxide 
requirements for the elimination of cell viability. 
Organism 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Brettanomyces 
Zygosaccharomyces bailii 
Lactobacillus plantarum Molecular S02 
requirement (mg/L) 
0.825 
0.825 
1.50 
4.0 
Source: Adapted from Beech et al. (I979). 458 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
molecular (Uzuka and Nomura 1986). These 
yeasts were sampled during the exponential 
growth phase under anaerobic conditions. This 
very rapid killing is similar to the results of 
Macris and Markakis (1974), who took growing 
yeast and found a decade reduction time (the 
time to reduce the viable population by 90%) 
of 83 minutes with a molecular concentration 
of 0.025 mg/L. This corresponds to approxi­
mately 30 minutes to reduce the viable popu­
lation by 50%, in agreement with Uzuka and 
Nomura (1986). The reduction of viable cells 
by 104 cells per mL in a 24-hour period (Beech 
et al. 1979) corresponds to an average decade 
reduction time of six hours at 0.825 mg/L 
molecular while the data reported by King 
et al. (1981) indicate decade reduction times 
of approximately 20 hours. The wide variation 
in these values points out the need for more 
investigation of the short-term viability effects 
under wine conditions. 
d. Descriptions of Death Kinetics 
The death kinetics of many organisms can be 
described by a first-order form that applies to 
the killing by sorbic acid and hypochlorite: 
02.3) 
where Xv is the viable cell concentration, and 
kd is a rate constant for death that depends on 
environmental conditions such as the concen­
tration of the disinfecting agent, pH, and tem­
perature. This expression is generally referred 
to as Chick's law (Bailey and Ollis 1977) and 
when integrated, it leads to the following rela­
tionship between the viable fraction and time: 
02.4) 
where Xl is the total cell concentration. 
When the logarithm of the viable cell count 
(expressed as a fraction of the total) is plotted 
against time, this death relationship provides a 
linear plot with a slope of minus kd• The 
thermal death of wine yeasts at elevated tem­
peratures follows this relationship (Van Uden et al. 1968), but the rates become insignificant 
at ambient conditions. 
The rate of killing of wine yeast does not 
follow Chick's law, but instead shows a falling 
sigmoid curve in many situations. This can be 
interpreted as being due to several subgroups 
of the population with different survival abili­
ties or different sensitivity due to cell age or 
the extent of scarring. At short times and high 
cell viability, the rate of killing is low, but at 
intermediate times and viabilities it increases 
rapidly before slowing again at long times and 
low viabilities. This kind of relationship is 
found both with the death caused by ethanol 
as well as that caused by sulfur dioxide. 
The most rigorous criterion for levels of 
sulfur dioxide to be used in winemaking will 
be that related to the concentration time con­
ditions required for the most tolerant fraction 
of the population. There is a need to improve 
our understanding of the death rates of yeast 
in order to better quantify the temporal ef­
fects of such additions, to manipulate the 
levels of this compound in a more effective 
manner, and to better consider alternative ex­
posure and contacting options in the future. 
One recent study has shown that such curves 
can be described by an empirical description 
known as the Gompertz equation: 
Nv = a exp[ -b exp(k . t}], 02.5) 
where Nv is the viable fraction of yeast at time 
t, with the following constants: a = 107.368, 
b = 0.071, and k = 0.101 (Uzuka et al. 1985; 
Uzuka and Nomura 1986). The decline in 
viability with time corresponding to these val­
ues is shown in Figure 12-4. 
The Gompertz description has been used to 
describe the behavior of a number of traits in 
populations of several species, especially for 
death relationships in actuarial studies, and 
might be useful in future studies of the death 
rates of wine organisms. The more usual situa­
tion of exponential death occurs when the 
death rate is proportional to the number of 
viable cells (Equation 12-3). One interpreta-The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 459 
100~~-----------------------------------' 
80 
20 
oL-------L-------~------~------~~=---~ 
o 10 20 30 
Time (Min) 
-- Model • Data 
tion of the Gompertz function is that the sen­
sitivity of the susceptible cells is changing in an 
exponential manner as their numbers are 
decreasing. 
There is a need for further studies related 
to the rate of cell death due to components 
such as ethanol and sulfur dioxide so that 
better understanding can be applied to the 
influence of time on these phenomena. 
2. Enzyme Inhibition 
While there are a number of studies of sulfite 
slowing of the polyphenoloxidase activity and 
browning in various fruit and vegetables, most 
of these have been at a pH of 5 or above and 
are of limited relevance to juice conditions. 
The extent that the enzyme activity is slowed 
by sulfur dioxide in grape juices has been 
discussed elsewhere (Chapter 3) and levels of 
50 mg/L added are adequate to reduce the 
activity by more than 90% (Dubernet and 
Ribereau-Gayon 1973; Amano et al. 1979). 
The nature of the inhibition has received 
far less attention but it becomes increasingly 
important if alternatives to sulfites are to be 
found. Sayavedra-Soto and Montgomery (1986) 
studied this enzyme from pear, using 35S la­
beled SO; and gel electrophoresis. They 
showed that the active form appears to be the 40 50 
Fig. 124. The loss of yeast viability 
due to S02 with time. Data ofUzuka 
et al. (I 985). 
HSO; ion and that irreversible structural 
modification, rather than a binding inhibition, 
is the mode of action. 
There is a second and quite different effect 
of sulfur dioxide on the browning caused by 
enzyme-mediated oxidation. This is the bind­
ing of quinone products by the bisulfite ion, 
minimizing the formation of the brown 
quinoidal polymers. This is discussed further 
in Section 6.b of this chapter. 
3. Carbonyl Binding 
One of the secondary features of sulfur diox­
ide is the ability of the bisulfite ion to form 
additional products with the carbonyl group of 
many compounds (Burroughs and Sparks 
1973a, 1973b, 1973c). The most common of 
these in wines is with acetaldehyde to form 
ethane sulfonic acid, a strongly acidic species 
in an equilibrium that leaves essentially no 
free acetaldehyde in the solution. This adduct 
is the major component of the bound sulfur 
dioxide in wines and the level in finished wine 
is determined primarily by the level of the 
addition of sulfur dioxide to the juice, the 
yeast strain used, and the thiamin of the juice. 
Since acetaldehyde is an intermediate in the 
biochemical production of ethanol, any added 460 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
sulfur dioxide is bound to the aldehyde re­
leased during fermentation. 
The other major carbonyl compounds that 
are important in the binding of sulfur dioxide 
in wines are the keto acids, pyruvic and glu­
taric. Elevated levels of these are mainly caused 
by nutritional deficiencies, especially vitamins 
due to mold infection of grapes or the ion 
exchange of juices. 
Other carbonyls such as oxidation products 
of phenols and of ascorbic acid and the fur­
furals produced from sugars by sustained heat­
ing are evidently involved with this aspect of 
the sulfur dioxide equilibria in wines. While 
not documented in wine conditions, the bind­
ing of bisulfite to yeast, bacteria and certain 
protein or cellular fragments would be ex­
pected to occur, even if only significant in the 
high grape solids suspended in musts or the 
high cell concentrations such as those found 
in yeast lees or certain separation processes. 
The relationship between the bound and 
the free HS03 can be written as a reversible 
equilibrium: 
(12.6) 
where C is the concentration of the free car­
bonyl; A is that of the sulfonate adduct; k j is 
the formation rate constant; and kd is the 
dissociation rate constant. For the most com­
mon carbonyl, acetaldehyde, there are no ion­
izable forms of the carbonyl, but this is not 
true for components such as pyruvic and a­
keto-glutaric acid. The effect of pH on the 
binding equilibrium generally involves the 
ionization of both the bisulfite and carbonyl 
forms. The equilibrium constant for the bind­
ing reaction can be expressed: 
02.7) 
and these have been evaluated for several 
components (Burroughs and Sparks 1973a, 
1973b, 1973c) and are presented in Table 12-6. Table 12-6. Dissociation equilibrium constants for some 
wine components 
K dissociation K dissociation 
Compound (pH = 3) (pH = 4) 
Acetaldehyde 1.5 X 10- 6 1.4 X 10- 6 
Malvidin 3 glucoside 6.0 X 10- 5 nla 
Pyruvate 1.4 X 10- 4 2.2 X 10- 4 
2-Ketoglutarate 4.9 X 10- 4 7.0 X 10- 4 
Galacturonate 1.6 X 10- 2 2.1 X 10- 2 
Glucose 6.4 X 10- 1 nla 
Source: Burroughs and Sparks (1973a); Beech et al. (1979). 
By analogy with other physical adsorption and 
enzyme binding equilibria, the concentration 
of bound carbonyl can be written: 
[A]max[HS0 3] 
[A]= Kb+[HS0 3]' 02.8) 
where [A]max is the maximum concentration 
of adduct that can be formed, and Kb is a 
measure of the affinity of bisulfite for the 
carbonyl, similar to the Km in enzyme bind­
ing. The constant Kb is equal to kj/k d (or 
Keg) and it is the concentration of bisulfite at 
which half of the carbonyl is bound. For ac­
etaldehyde this is 1.5 JLM/L, while for pyru­
vate and a-ketoglutarate it is 140 and 490 
JLM/L respectively. The value of [A]max is 
equal to the total concentration of the car­
bonyl in all forms, or [C] plus [A]. Equation 
(12.8) can be rewritten to give the fraction of 
the carbonyl that is bound at any free bisulfite 
concentration: 
[ A] 
[A] + [C] [HS0 3] 
02.8a) Kb + [HS0 3] , 
and the binding curves for acetaldehyde, mal­
vidin-3-glucoside, pyruvic and a-keto-glutaric 
acids are presented in Figure 12-5. In juices, 
the binding of glucose is significant, and ap­
proximately 50% of the sulfur dioxide added 
at levels of 50 to 100 mg/L will be bound in 
this way. In dry wines, the glucose content is 
essentially zero and the contributions of this to 
the bound S02 pool are insignificant. .... o 
§ 
.;::; 
U 
t1l 
U: 1.00 r-=_F= ___ ---1I- ...... --_--II 
0.80 
0.60 
0040 
0.20 
0.00 ... ..-....... ..--..---.- .......... ..--..----- ...... 
o 10 20 30 40 50 
Free S02 Concentration (mg/U 
The concept of rest S02 was developed and 
introduced by Kielhofer and Wurdig (1960) 
during their studies of the variation in bound 
and free levels in wines made from mold­
infected and healthy grapes. The rest S02 is 
that fraction of the bound sulfur dioxide that 
cannot be accounted for by acetaldehyde and 
glucose binding. It is, therefore, a measure of 
the bisulfite bound to keto acids such as the 
natural levels of pyruvic, a-keto-glutaric, and 
others which may be produced by mold action 
on grapes, such as 5-keto-gluconic and 2-keto­
galacturonic (Wurdig and Schlotter 1968). 
4. The Kinetics of Binding Reactions 
The binding of the bisulfite forms with the 
carbonyl compound mentioned above has im­
portant implications when it comes to the an­
timicrobial action and the analytical determi­
nation of the free sulfur dioxide in wines. The 
combination of carbonyls with bisulfite ions is 
only one aspect of the binding equilibrium. At 
equilibrium there is an equal and opposite 
hydrolysis reaction which returns the addition 
product to its original components. It is the 
ratio of the formation and dissociation rate 
constants that determines the magnitude of 
the equilibrium constant for the binding reac­
tion. • 
• 
0 
0 
• The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 461 
Acetaldehyde 
Pyruvic 
Acid 
Ketoglutaric 
Acid 
Malvidin-3-
Glucoside 
Glucose 
Fig. 12-5. The extent of binding of 
various components as a function of 
free sulfur dioxide. 
The rate at which bound form dissociates 
can be written: 
where the terms are as defined in Equation 
(12.6). Values of the formation and dissocia­
tion rate constants for a number of compo­
nents are presented in Table 12-7. During the 
analysis of free sulfur dioxide by the titration 
or aeration oxidation methods, the concentra­
tion of bisulfite is reduced to low levels by 
reagent or gas stripping and the rate of adduct 
formation decreases accordingly. The change 
Table 12-7. Fonnation and dissociation rate constants 
of bisulfite addition compounds at 25°C. 
Acetaldehyde 
(I = 0.85 M)! 
HS03 
SO; 
Pyruvate ion 
(I = 0.157 M)! 
HSO-3 
SO; 
Glucose2 
!Tenscher (1986). 
2Vas (1949). Formation rate 
constant (l/M/s) 
1.0 
3.0 X 10+4 
1.03 X 1O+! 
unknown 
1.39 X 10- 3 Dissociation rate 
constant (l/s) 
1.3 X 10- 4 
3.6 X 10- 4 
1.4 X 10- 3 
unknown 
2.40 X 10- 3 462 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
in adduct concentration will then decrease 
based on the rate of the dissociation. Adducts 
for which the dissociation rate is slow will 
remain in the bound form, and the acetalde­
hyde adduct is an example of this. In contrast, 
adducts of the pyruvate ion (and perhaps also 
the a-keto-glutarate ion) and the anthocyanins 
have rates of dissociation that are much faster 
than their addition reaction, and this leads to 
a much more dynamic interchange of bound 
form into free sulfur dioxide. 
The rate of dissociation of these addition 
compounds is especially important when the 
free sulfur dioxide is to be measured. The 
traditional methods for this determination are 
the direct titration of acidified samples with 
iodine (or iodate) in the Ripper method and 
the sparging and trapping approach of the 
aeration oxidation method (Ough and Amer­
ine 1988). Under the latter conditions, the 
rapidly dissociated bound components will 
break down and their bound bisulfite will be 
removed as molecular S02 in the carrier gas. 
This will then appear in the free sulfur dioxide 
determination along with the actual free forms 
in the wine. The aeration oxidation proce­
dure, while quite reproducible as a method, 
can result in erroneously high values in wines 
with significant pyruvate or a-keto-glutarate. 
By comparison, the poor reproducability of 
the direct titration is due to the rapid dissocia­
tion of pyruvate-like components during the 
determination and the drifting end point that 
results from it. 
The use of a rapid, direct titration proce­
dure in which the end point is determined 
using a dual platinum electrode would seem to 
be the most applicable determination of prac­
tical use for the closest determination of the 
free forms under solution equilibrium. In this 
amperometric procedure, the potential is 
measured while a small current (typically 5 
microamperes) is passed through the solution 
from the polarizing electrode connection 
(often designated the Karl Fischer connection) 
of most commercial pH meters. Such proce­
dures have been investigated over the past 
decades (Ingram 1947; Pataky 1958; Brun et al. 1961; Schneyder and Vlcek 1977; Yah] 
and Converse 1980; Villeton-Pachot et al. 1980: 
Pontallier et al. 1982), but they are not com­
monly used in wineries, even today. They offer 
the fastest and most easily automated method 
of free sulfur dioxide analysis and most com­
mercial auto titration units can be set up to 
perform this task. While some hydrolysis is 
inherent in this approach, it will be always be 
smaller than other slower methods, and a 
knowledge of the titration time and the rate of 
hydrolysis would permit a reasonable correc­
tion to be made, if desired. 
The recent development of alternative 
methods for the determination of free sulfur 
dioxide using capillary electrophoresis (Collins 
and Boulton 1995) provides a more effective 
way of removing the hydrolysis component of 
the free sulfur dioxide from the determina­
tion. 
5. Thiamin Destruction 
Thiamin is an important vitamin for the growth 
of many microorganisms. Almost all of the 
culture media used for the propagation of 
yeast and bacteria contain it at levels in the 
range 100 to 1000 p,g/L. Levels of thiamin in 
grapes and wine average 100 and 1200 p,g/L, 
respectively (Amerine et al. 1972). The de­
struction of thiamin by bisulfite has been 
known for many years, but the rate at which 
this occurs has not generally been appreci­
ated. For microorganisms which have an abso­
lute requirement for thiamin, for example 
spoilage yeast such as Brettanomyces and certain 
Lactobacilli (Hammond and Carr 1976), one of 
the antimicrobial effects of the usage of sulfur 
dioxide in wines may be the destruction of 
trace levels of thiamin, and, thereby, the pre­
vention of their growth. A similar cleavage 
reaction with folic acid has been reported 
(Vanderschmitt et al. 1967) and there are sev­
eral reports of a sulfur dioxide and NAD reac­
tion (Pfleiderer et al. 1956; Rhem 1964). 
The cleavage of thiamin by bisulfite ions 
yields a pyrimidine (6-amino-2-methyl pyrimid-
5-yI) methane-sulfonic acid and a (5-B-hydroxy-ethyl-4-) methyl thiazole (Leichter and Joslyn 
1969). The reaction is thought to be a nucle­
ophilic displacement, similar to the cleavage 
of disulfides by sulfite (Bobet et al. 1990), but 
with the bisulfite rather than the sulfite ion. It 
is important to quantify the rate at which this 
reaction proceeds in order to understand the 
effects that occur during the storage of juices 
and concentrates that contain S02' 
a. Kinetics 
The extent of the reaction at various times can 
be obtained by integration of the rate equa­
tion. The kinetics of reaction are second order 
overall, but first order with respect to both 
thiamin and bisulfite concentrations. The rate 
of thiamin cleavage can be expressed: 
d[Th]jdt = -k[Th][SO;L (12.10) 
where k is the second-order rate constant. 
Values of k are 0.046 and O.OOS L/mole/hr at 
pH of 3.0 and 4.0, respectively (Leichter and 
Joslyn 1969). 
b. Effect of Temperature 
Leichter and Joslyn (1969) found the bimolec­
ular rate constant to double for each increase 
of lOoC at pH of 5.0 (giving an activation 
energy of 56.9 kJ/mole) over the range 20°C 
to 70°C. A corresponding study has also been 
reported by Jaulmes and Bres (1973). 
c. Effect of pH 
The rate constant k seems to be related to the 
cation form of thiamin and the bisulfite ion 
and both of these are functions of pH. The 
general form of the rate expression for all pH 
values is: 
Ka 
d[Th]jdt = -k[Th] [Ka + [H+]] . [HSOs] 
[H+ ]Kal 
X.---~-----------------. 
[[H+]2 + [H+]Ka + Ka1Ka2] , 
(12.11) The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 463 
where the pKa for thiamin is 4.5 and pKal and 
pKa2 for sulfur dioxide are 1.S6 and 7.1S, 
respectively. By incorporating the activation 
energy found by Leichter and Joslyn (1969), 
the Arrhenius form of the second-order rate 
constant (L/mole/s) is given by: 
k = S.22 X 1015 
[ -56,900] 
X exp [R(T + 273.2)]' (12.12) 
Leichter and Joslyn (1969) found that the 
destruction was maximal at a pH of 5.5 to 5.S 
and was found to be slower at higher pH 
values in both studies. This is expected from 
the ionization of the two reactants since the 
product of the reactive fractions has a pH 
maximum at 5.S. At juice and wine pH value 
the reaction is pseudo first order due to the 
dominance of the sulfur dioxide compared to 
that of thiamin. The effect of pH on the rate is 
determined by the ionization of thiamin since 
there is little change in the fraction in the 
bisulfite form under conditions of pH between 
3.0 and 4.0. The rate increases more than 
threefold for each rise in pH of 0.5 units in 
this range. 
The decrease in the rate of thiamin cleav­
age as a function of pH is shown in Figure 
12-6a. The effect of temperature on the rate is 
shown in Figure 12-6b. The rates are for a free 
sulfur dioxide concentration of 10 mg/L and 
at 20°C and correspond to the rates expected 
in juice and wine. The half-time for the reac­
tion at pH = 3.0 is 219 days, while that for the 
reaction at pH = 3.5 is 72 days. This is not fast 
enough for the prevention of thiamin-depen­
dent microbial growth during the first months 
of aging. The corresponding condition at pH 
= 4.0 would have a half-time of 27 days. While 
this might seem to be a contributing factor in 
preventing the growth of certain organisms, 
the molecular component of the 10 mg/L 
free sulfur dioxide would be ineffective against 464 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
10 Table 12-8. The effect of temperature and pH on the 
8 
2 
o'-----'----'---'-----'------.J 
3.00 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 
pH 
Fig. 12-6a. The effect of pH on the rate of thiamin 
cleavage by S02' 
practically all organisms in this condition. The 
other conditions in which this reaction is sig­
nifican t are stored juices and concentrates with 
elevated sulfur dioxide levels. 
20 
16 
1: 12 ..... ..J 
~ 
III ... 8 III a: 
4 
o~~~--~----~--~--~ 
o 10 20 30 40 50 
Temperature (C) 
Fig. 12-6b. The effect of temperature on the rate of 
thiamin cleavage by S02' second-order rate constant for thiamin cleavage. 
Temperature 
("C) pH = 3.0 pH = 3.5 pH = 4.0 
0 0.230 0.771 1.90 
5 0.361 1.15 2.98 
10 0.557 1.72 4.60 
15 0.846 2.62 7.00 
20 1.27 3.93 10.5 
25 1.87 5.79 15.5 
The values of the rate constant at other 
temperatures and pH conditions of interest to 
winemakers are shown in Table 12-8. 
6. Sulfite Oxidation 
The development of golden brown tints dur­
ing aging, the loss of varietal character, the 
formation of aldehydic compounds, and the 
ongoing browning of wine in the bottle are all 
aspects of undesirable chemical changes in 
white wines. These same reactions occur to a 
similar degree in red wines, but the results are 
not as obvious due to the natural pigmenta­
tion of these wines and the higher substrate 
content. 
The form of sulfur dioxide that reacts with 
oxygen is the sulfite ion which is always the 
least abundant form at wine pH. The fraction 
in the sulfite form is small even at pH = 4.0, 
but it is one-tenth as much at pH = 3.0. It 
undergoes the redox reactions: 
so; +H 20 ~ ---~ SO; +2H++ 2e-
EO = -0.08 V 
and 
1/2° 2 + 2H+ + 2e-~ ---~ H20 
EO = 1.229 V. 
These reactions suggest that 16 mg of oxy­
gen consumes 64 mg of sulfur dioxide, that is 
a pattern of 4 mg S02 per mg of oxygen. At a 
total S02 of 100 mg/L only 25 mg/L of 
oxygen could theoretically be consumed by sulfite. Actual oxygen consumption in wine 
can be much higher. 
a. The Rate of Oxygen Consumption 
There have been very few kinetic studies of 
the sulfite reaction under wine conditions (pH 
less than 4.0, 110 gjL ethanol), but the reac­
tion might be expected to be first order with 
respect to oxygen and sulfite concentrations in 
most wine situations. 
d[021!dt = -h][02][SO;1 = -h;[021, 
(12.13) 
where h] is the second-order rate constant; 
and h'] is the pseudo first-order rate constant 
when the sulfite ion concentration is well above 
that of the oxygen. 
The oxygen uptake measurements in a 
model wine and white wine (Poulton 1970) 
display a first-order rate law and an expo­
nential decline in the concentration of the 
reactants: 
The pseudo first-order rate constant h; for 
the reaction between the sulfite ion and oxy­
gen (with a free sulfur dioxide concentration 
of 30 mgjL, pH = 3.6) have been reported to 
10 r--------------------------, 
8 
:J • .... 
CI 6 S 0 c 
~ )( 4 0 
0 
2 
2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 
Time (Days) The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 465 
be 2.66 X 10 -7 S -] corresponding to a half­
time of approximately 30 days. By comparison, 
the corresponding experiment using ascorbate 
(at a concentration of 100 mgjL) had a rate 
constant of 3.27 X 1O- 4s-] or a half-time of 
approximately 35 minutes. The rates of oxy­
gen consumption for these reactions are shown 
in Figure 12-7. This clearly demonstrates the 
almost nonexistent oxygen removal capacity of 
sulfur dioxide under wine pH and ethanol 
conditions. The ascorbate-oxygen reaction is 
almost 1700 times faster than the sulfite-oxygen 
reaction at this pH. 
The more important values are those of the 
wine itself and Poulton's other measurements 
were with one white wine and additions of 
ascorbate to it. He found the oxygen uptake 
rate in a white wine due to its phenolic and 
other constituents to have a rate constant of 
6.51 X 1O- 6s-1 or a half-time of approxi­
mately 1.2 days. These results have been re­
drawn and are presented in a combined form 
in Figure 12-8. 
The first-order rate law for oxygen con­
sumption could only occur if either the sulfite 
concentration (or that of the ascorbate or the 
phenols) was in excess of the oxygen, or the 
slowest step was the formation of an oxygen­
derived intermediate, such as some oxygen­
related radical. 
Sulfite in 
Model Wine 
Ascorbate in 
White Wine 
White Wine 
Alone 
Fig. 12-7. The consumption of dis­
solved oxygen by sulfite and ascorbate 
in model solution. Data of Poulton 
(1970). 466 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
10;=============::] 
j • Sulfite in 
Model Wine 
0 Ascorbate in 
8 White Wine 
:>. 0 White Wine )( 
0 Alone 
0.1 ~~~--~~~--~~~~~ 
Fig. 12-8. The consumption of dis· 
solved oxygen by a wine and ascor­
bate in a wine. Data of Poulton (1970). o 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 
In Poulton's (I970) study, the sulfite was not 
far from the stoichiometric levels and could 
not be considered to be in excess. The forma­
tion of a reaction intermediate, which then 
reacts quickly with sulfite, appears to be closer 
to the actual situation. While the majority of 
the literature related to the sulfite oxidation 
reaction has reported rate laws involving the 
sulfite concentration (and generally not the 
oxygen concentration), there are studies that 
support free radical mechanisms (Fuller and 
Crist 1941), the formation of a superoxide ion 
under higher pH conditions (Fridovich and 
Handler 1961) and others (McCord and 
Fridovich 1969; Yang 1970, 1973) that show 
superoxide's dissociation to form oxygen and 
peroxide has a dramatic effect on rates of the 
sulfite reaction. The contributions of the su­
peroxide ion and hydrogen peroxide forma­
tion to the oxygen reactivity in wines are not 
well understood at present. 
The rate constant k'l' can be expected to 
vary due to increases in temperature, in an 
exponential manner, as predicted by the Ar­
rhenius equation. There does not appear to 
be a value reported for the activation energy 
of this reaction derived from wine-like condi­
tions, but estimates of it can be made from old Time (Days) 
studies of this kind (Ribereau-Gayon 1933). 
Based on the rates of uptake of oxygen in a 
wine at temperatures over the range -2°C to 
30°C (Figure 12-9), it can be shown to first 
order with respect to oxygen. The effect of 
temperature on this rate of oxygen uptake 
(L/mL/day) can be written: 
k'l = 8.41 X 1023 
[ -137,700] 
*exp [R(T + 273.2)]' 02.15) 
where k~ is the pseudo first-order rate con­
stant, the activation energy is 137.7 ~J1mole, 
and R is the gas constant (8.314 X 103 kg m2 
s -2 kgmole -I K). This is shown graphically in 
Figure 12-10. 
Wines are known to have different rates of 
oxygen consumption and this appears to alter 
with more oxygen exposure (Rossi and Single­
ton 1966, Perscheid and Ziirn 1977). While 
the observed rate of the oxidation reaction 
will depend upon the pH, the constant k I 
should be essentially independent of it. The 
main effect of pH is on the dissociation of 
the molecular sulfur dioxide and bisulfite ions 
to form the sulfite ion which is the reacting 
entity. 7 
6 /),. 
:J ~ ..... 5 i 
Q) 0 
.x: 4 
III 
+-' a. • ::J 3 c 
~ 0 
X 2 0 • 
10 20 30 
Time (Days) 
There have been studies of the rate of dis­
appearance of free sulfur dioxide in bottled 
wine (Ough 1985) and although Arrhenius-type 
plots are presented, these are not necessarily 
due to the oxidation reaction described above. 
The apparent activation energies for the loss 
in total sulfur dioxide in red and white table 
wines was 35.7 and 13.4 kllmole, respectively. 
The formation of brown color in white wines 
has displayed apparent activation energies of 
66.4 (Berg and Akiyoshi 1956) and 74.5 (Ough 
2.50 
>. 2.00 
III "0 ..... 
...J ..... i 1.50 
+-' c III 
+-' (/) c 1.00 0 0 
Q) 
+-' III a: 0.50 -2 C 
3 C 
13 C 
17 C 
20 C 
30 C The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 467 
Fig. 12-9. The effect of temperature on oxygen 
consumption by a wine. Data of Ribereau-Gayon 
(1933). 
1985) kllmole, compared to those for the 
oxygen consumption, 137.6 kllmole, noted 
previously. 
Sulfate formation has been proposed as an 
alternative indicator of the extent of the oxi­
dation reaction rather than the loss in total 
S02' but not all of the lost sulfite appears as 
sulfate and the analysis by methods other than 
ion chromatography is tedious. The evapora­
tive loss of sulfur dioxide from barrels and the 
interaction with quinones to form monsul-
0.00 L--........ -'-____ ~==:c::=__--L.. _ ___l. __ ..I-_--L- _ __.J 
-5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Fig. 12-10. The effect of tempera-
Temperatt.re (C) ture on the rate of consumption of 
oxygen by a wine. 468 The Rnle of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
fonates (Lu Valle 1952) can lead to incorrect 
assessments of the extent of oxidation when 
the total sulfur dioxide method is used. 
The differences in redox potential might be 
thought to indicate that sulfite should be as 
extensively oxidized as ascorbate, yet less ex­
tensively than phenols, based on the corre­
sponding redox potentials: 
Ascorbate .---- - Dehydro-ascorbate 
EO = -0.06 
Catechol .---- - 1,2 Benzoquinone 
EO = -0.792, 
however, the extent of these reactions in the 
short term turns out to be controlled by their 
rates of reaction rather than the redox equi­
libria. The rate of sulfite oxidation is known 
to be much slower in ethanol solutions than 
in water (Bioletti 1912) and the studies of 
Poulton (1970) and Wedzicha and Lamikanra 
(1987) confirm this. 
b. Loss of Total Sulfur Dioxide after 
Bottling 
The loss of sulfur dioxide in the days and 
weeks following bottling has several causes. 
One study has shown that for two white wines 
in corked bottles, the total sulfur dioxide had 
fallen by between 20 to 30% after a five-year 
period at 12°C (Muller-Spath 1982). One study 
of the changes in the free sulfur dioxide dur­
ing an accelerated storage condition (10 days 
at 50°C) in beer showed a decline during the 
first six days without any changes in the sulfate 
content (Kuriowa and Hashimoto 1970). An­
other, showing the changes in color and total 
sulfur dioxide in red and white table wines 
during 21 days at temperatures between 28°C 
and 49°C, is especially interesting (Ough 1985). 
While the rates of the changes in color (loss in 
absorbance at 520 nm for the red wine, gain 
in absorbance at 420 nm for the white wine) 
were different, the response to temperature, 
as indicated by the activation energies of these 
reactions were the same. This suggests that the 
same kind of reaction, perhaps the general condensation of phenols, was rate-limiting in 
both situations. The rate of loss of the total 
sulfur dioxide was between two and three times 
faster in the red wine than the white wine. 
The activation energies of these losses, how­
ever, were quite different, indicating that the 
rate-limiting reaction in the loss of total sulfur 
dioxide in the red wine was different from 
that in the white wine. 
The reactions involved in the loss of total 
sulfur dioxide are (1) The loss as vapor past 
the cork; (2) the oxidation of sulfite by oxygen 
within the bottle; (3) the formation of strongly 
bound bisulfite addition compounds that are 
not hydrolyzed as part of the analysis; and (4) 
the slow oxidation of sulfite by previously oxi­
dized phenols. 
The first is not significant under normal 
storage temperatures and the second would 
require 4 mg/L of S02 for each mg/L of 
oxygen, but this reaction has been shown to 
be very slow. The reactions of the third kind 
may be involved due to the possible formation 
of addition compounds with quinones (Embs 
and Markakis 1965), and a number of unsatu­
rated carbonyl compounds have been shown 
to form irreversibly bound sulfonates (Burton 
et al. 1963). There appears to be little study of 
the ability of the aromatic quinones and car­
bonyls found in wines to bind with the bisulfite 
ion. This reaction was also noted to interfere 
with the carbonyl/amine browning in certain 
foods, but this is of less importance in wines. 
The remaining reaction involves the rear­
rangement of oxidized and reduced compo­
nents in the wine, especially those favored 
kinetically rather than energetically. The early 
pattern of products from the oxidation of a 
phenolic mixture such as wine will be con­
trolled by the relative rates of reaction rather 
than the strength of their redox reaction. 
However, in the long term, there can be rear­
rangements of these reactions that more 
closely follows that expected from equilibrium 
considerations. It is thought that a number of 
rapidly formed oxidation products will un­
dergo later reduction reactions with other 
components. These would include other phe-nols and sulfite that do not exhibit rapid oxi­
dation rates. Under long-term storage condi­
tions, in which further oxidation has been 
essentially eliminated, these rearrangements 
are expected to occur. The oxidation of sulfite 
by oxidized phenols would lead to the forma­
tion of sulfate and the loss of total sulfur 
dioxide. This would also delay the condensa­
tion of the quinoidal phenols and defer the 
formation of brown pigments, as observed in 
white wines. Quinones produced by polyphe­
nol oxidase activity have been converted back 
to diphenols by sulfite (Walker (1975), but this 
has not been shown to occur under wine con­
ditions. A recent kinetic study of the inhibition 
of polyphenol oxidase by metabisulfite (Valero 
et al. 1992) has been able to show that in 
order to explain the delay in and rate of 
brown formation, the reaction between bisul­
fite and quinones has to be accounted for. 
This is indirect evidence of such a reaction for 
enzyme oxidation products and further work 
is needed to establish the presence of a similar 
reaction for quinones formed during the 
chemical oxidation of wines. 
The same thinking can be applied to the 
more rapid decline of free (and presumably 
total) sulfur dioxide in the presence of ascor­
bic acid additions. Ascorbate is known to react 
at similar rates to many of the other phenols 
in wine (Poulton 1970), but based on its redox 
potential, there are a number of other phe­
nols that should be more easily oxidized. The 
regeneration of phenols from their quinones 
by ascorbic acid in the absence of oxygen is 
generally accepted. However, the faster-than­
usual depletion of free sulfur dioxide in the 
presence of ascorbate, noted by Milller-Spath, 
suggests that ascorbate is involved in enhanc­
ing these sulfite reactions. 
7. Sulfur Dioxide-Peroxide Reactions 
Among the oxidation substrates of wine is a 
class of phenols whose nonenzymic reaction 
with oxygen results in the formation of almost 
stoichiometric levels of hydrogen peroxide 
(Wildenradt and Singleton 1974). This group The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 469 
is the vicinal-dihydroxy phenols, the most im­
portant of which is caffeic (or caftaric) acid in 
white and significant in all wines. It is of par­
ticular concern that ascorbate reaction with 
oxygen follows the same pattern. 
The formation of peroxide in wines can 
lead to a corresponding increase in the level 
of acetaldehyde (from the oxidation reaction 
with ethanol) in the absence of available sulfite 
ions, and both caffeic acid and ascorbate have 
been shown to be able to produce one mole of 
aldehyde for each mole of substrate under 
accelerated test conditions (Wildenradt and 
Singleton 1974). 
Unlike the reaction of oxygen with sulfite, 
the reaction of hydrogen peroxide at low pH 
involves the molecular form (Halperin and 
Taube 1952) rather than the sulfite ion form 
(Mader 1958). The fraction of the free sulfur 
dioxide that is in the molecular form is very 
low at pH conditions that are high for wines 
but is more significant in low pH wines. 
The rate is expected to follow a second­
order rate law, first order with respect to per­
oxide and molecular concentrations, and is 
thought to have a maximum rate at a pH of 
1. 9 (Sawyer 1991). Wildenradt and Singleton 
(1974) have demonstrated the effect of this 
reaction in limiting the acetaldehyde forma­
tion when pyrogallol or ascorbic acids are oxi­
dized in the presence of free sulfur dioxide 
under wine-like conditions. They found that 
the acetaldehyde produced at elevated tem­
peratures could be lowered to approximately 
20%, but in the presence 180 mg/L of free 
sulfur. This indicates that the rate of the per­
oxide-ethanol reaction is several times that for 
the peroxide-sulfur dioxide reaction. Under 
wine conditions and normal storage tempera­
tures the extent of the reaction may be quite 
different. There do not appear to be any ki­
netic studies of the peroxide-sulfur dioxide 
reaction, let alone any under wine conditions. 
The only significant contribution of the sul­
fur dioxide as an antioxidant in wine appears 
to be in this reaction with hydrogen peroxide, 
generated from the oxidation of the vicinal, 
dihydroxy phenols. While some slowing of the 470 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
sulfite-oxygen reaction in the presence of 
ethanol has been noted (Bioletti 1912; 
Wedzicha and Lamikanra 1987), a correspond­
ing effect on the peroxide-sulfur dioxide reac­
tion might not be expected. It is thought that 
the peroxide-sulfur dioxide reaction continues 
to be many times faster than the oxygen-sulfite 
reaction under wine conditions. This is sup­
ported by the general observation that the 
maintenance of free sulfur dioxide levels in 
the range 5 to 25 mg/L in wines will prevent 
the development of acetaldehyde. If this was 
simply due to the binding of any acetaldehyde 
formed, the bound level would increase while 
the total remained the same and this is not 
observed. Sulfur dioxide is therefore a moder­
ate antioxidant for the peroxide reaction un­
der wine conditions even though it is of lim­
ited value in the oxygen reaction. 
C. REFERENCES 
AMANo, Y., M. KUBOTA, and M. KAGAMI. 1979. 
"Oxygen uptake of Koshu grape must and its 
con trol." H okkokogaku Kaishi 57:92- 10 1. 
AMERINE, M. A., H. W. BERG, and W. V. CRUESS. 
1972. The Technology of Wine Making, p. llO. 
Westport, CT: Avi Publishing. 
AMERINE, M. A., and E. B. ROESSLER. 1983. 
Wines-Their Sensory Evaluation, 2nd ed., p. 37. 
New York: Freeman Company. 
ANACLETO, J., and N. VAN UOEN. 1982. "Kinetics 
and activation energetics of death in Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae induced by sulfur dioxide." 
Biotechnol. Bioeng. 24:2477-2486. 
BAILEY J. E., and D. F. OLLIS. 1977. Biochemical 
Engineering Fundamentals, p. 407. New York: Mc­
Graw-Hill. 
BEECH, F. W., L. F. BURROUGHS, C. F. TIMBERlAKE, 
and G. C. WHITING. 1979. "Progres recents sur 
I'aspect chimique et antimicrobienne de 
l'anhydride sulfureux." Bull. O.I.V. 
52(586):1001-1022. 
BEECH, F. W., and S. THOMAS. 1985. "Action antimi­
crobienne de l'anhydride sulfureux." Bull. OJ.V. 
58(652-653):564-581. 
BERG, H. W., and M. AKIYOSHI. 1956. "Some factors 
involved in the browning of white wines." Am.]' 
Enol. 7:1-7. BIDAN, P., and Y. COLLON. 1985. "Metabolisme du 
soufre chez la levure." Bull. O.I.V. 
58(652-653):544-563. 
BIOLETTI, F. T. 1912. "Sulfurous acid in winemak­
ing." 8th Int. Congo Appl. Chem. 14:31-59. 
BOBET, R. A., A. C. NOBLE, and R. B. BOULTOf\;. 
1990. "Kinetics of ethanethiol and diethyl disul­
fide interconversion in wine-like solutions." ]. 
Agric. Food Chem. 38:449-452. 
BRUN, P., C. GASQUET, S. DE STOUTZ, and A. NICOLI. 
1961. "Application de l'amperometrie a la de­
termination de l'anhydride sulfureux dans les 
vins." Ann. Fals. Exp. Chim. 54:412-420. 
BURROUGHS, L. F., and A. H. SPARKS. 1973a. 
"Sulphite-binding power of wines and ciders. 1. 
Equilibrium constants for the dissociation of car­
bonyl bisulphite compounds." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
24:187-198. 
BURROUGHS, L. F., and A. H. SPARKS. 1973b. 
"Sulphite-binding power of wines and ciders. II. 
Theoretical consideration and calculation of the 
sulphite-binding equilibria." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
24: 199-206. 
BURROUGHS, L. F., and A. H. SPARKS. 1973c. 
"Sulphite-binding power of wines and ciders. III. 
Determination of carbonyl compounds in a wine 
and calculation of its sulphite-binding power." ]. 
Sci. Food Agric. 24:207-217. 
BURTON, H. S., D. J. MCWEENY, and D. O. BILT­
CLIFFE. 1963. "Non-enzymic browning: The role 
of unsaturated carbonyl compounds as interme­
diates and of S02 as an inhibitor of browning." 
]. Sci. Food Agric. 14:911-920. 
COLLINS, T. S., and R. B. BOULTON. 1995. "A rapid 
method for the detection of free sulfur dioxide 
in wine using capillary electrophoresis." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. (In press). 
CRUESS, W. V. 1912. "The effect of sulfurous acid 
on fermentation organisms." Ind. Eng. Chem. 
4:581-585. 
DUBERNET, M., and P. RIBEREAU-GAYON. 1973. "Pres­
ence et significance dans Ie mouts et vins de la 
tyrosinase du raisin." Conn. Vigne Vin 7:283-302. 
EMBS, R. J., and P. MARKAKIs. 1965. "The mecha­
nism of sulfite inhibition of browning caused by 
polyphenol oxidase." ]. Food Sci. 30:753-758. 
FORNACHON, J. C. M. 1963. "Inhibition of certain 
lactic acid bacteria by free and bound sulphur 
dioxide." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 14:857-862. FOUST, A. S., L. A. WENZEL, C. W. CLUMP, L. MAus, 
and L. B. ANDERSEN. 1960. Principles of Unit Oper­
ations. New York: john Wiley & Sons. 
FRIDOVICH. I., and P. HANDLER. 1961. "Detection of 
free radicals generated during enzymic oxida­
tions by the initiation of sulfite oxidation." ]. 
Biol. Chern. 236:1836-1840. 
FULLER, E. C., and R. H. CRIST. 1941. "The rate of 
oxidation of sulfite ions by oxygen."]' Am. Chem. 
Soc. 63:1644-1650. 
HALPERIN,]., and H. TAUBE. 1952. "The transfer of 
oxygen atoms in oxidation-reduction reactions. 
IV. The reaction of hydrogen peroxide with sul­
fite and thiosulfate, and of oxygen, manganese 
dioxide and permanganate with sulfite." ]. Am. 
Chem. Soc. 74:380-382. 
HAMMOND, S. M., and]. G. CARR. 1976. "The an­
timicrobial activity of S02-With particular ref­
erence to fermented and non-fermented fruit 
juices." In Inhibition and Inactivation of Vegetative 
Microbes, F. A. Skinner and W. B. Hugo, Eds. 
London: Academic Press. 
HOOD, A. 1983. "Inhibition of growth of wine 
lactic-acid bacteria by acetaldehyde-bound sul­
phur dioxide." Aust. Grapegrower & Winemaker 
232:34-43. 
INGRAM, M. 1947. "An electrometric indicator to 
replace starch in iodine titrations of sulphurous 
acid in fruit juices." ]. Soc. Chem. Ind. 66:50-55. 
jAULMES, P., and]. BRES. 1973. "Cinetique de l'ac­
tion de l'anhydride sulfureux sur la thiamine et 
la cocarboxylase." Bull. OJ.V. 46(508):507-515. 
KATCHMER, ]. 1990. Effects of sulfur dioxide and 
bisulfite-binding compounds on short term yeast 
viability in a model wine solution. M.S. thesis, 
Davis, CA: University of California. 
KIELHOFER, E., and G. WURDIG. 1960. "Die an un­
bekannte Weinbestandteile gebundene schwe­
flige Saure (Rest S02) und ihre Beduetung fur 
den Wein (I)." Weinberg und Keller 7:313-328. 
KING, A. D. jR.,]. D. PONTlNG, D. W. SANSHUCK, R. 
JACKSON, and K. MIHARA. 1981. "Factors affect­
ing death of yeast by sulfur dioxide." ].Food Prot. 
44:92-97. 
KURIOWA, Y., and N. HAsHIMOTO. 1970. "Sulfur 
compounds responsible for beer flavor." Brewer's 
Digest 45(5):44-54. 
LAFON-LAFouRCADE, S., and E. PEYNAUD. 1974. "Sur 
l'action antibacterienne de l'anhydride sul-The Rnle of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 471 
fureux sous forme libre et so us forme 
combinee." Conn. Vigne Vin 8:187-203. 
LEICHTER,]., and M. A. JOSLYN. 1969. "Kinetics of 
thiamin cleavage by sulphite." Biochem. ]. 
113:611-615. 
Lu VALLE,]. E. 1952. "The reaction of quinone and 
sulfite. I. Intermediates." ]. Am. Chern. Soc. 
74:2970-2977. 
MAcRIs, B. ]., and P. MARKAKIs. 1974. "Transport 
and toxicity of sulfur dioxide in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae var ellipsoideus." ]. Sci. Food Agric. 
25:21-29. 
MADER, P. M. 1958. "Kinetics of the hydrogen per­
oxide-sulfite reaction in alkaline solution." ]. 
Am. Chem. Soc. 80:2634-2638. 
MAYER, K., U. VETSCH, and G. PAUSE. 1975. "Hem­
mung des biologischen Saurabbaus durch 
gebundene schweflige Saure." Schw. Z. Obst­
Wein. 23:590-596. 
McCoRD,]. M., and I. FRIDOVICH. 1969. "The utility 
of superoxide dismutase in studying free radical 
reactions." ]. Biol. Chern. 244:6056-6063. 
MINARIK, E. 1978. "Progres recents dans la connais­
sance des phenomenes micro biologiques en 
vinification." Bull. OJ.V. 51(567):352-367. 
MULLER-SPATH, H. 1982. "Die Rolle der Kohlen­
saure beim Stillwein." Weinwirt. 118:1031-1037. 
MULLER-THURGAU, H., and A. OSTERWALDER. 1915. 
"Prevention by sulfur dioxide of alcoholic fer­
mentation in fruit and grape juice." Landwirt. 
Jahrb. Schweiz. 29:421-432. 
OUGH, C. S. 1983. "Sulfur dioxide and sulfites." In: 
Antimicrobials in Foods. A. L. Branen and P. M. 
Davidson, Eds., pp. 177-203. New York: Marcel 
Dekker. 
OUGH, C. S. 1985. "Some effects of temperature 
and S02 on wine during simulated transport or 
storage." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:18-22. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A. AMERINE. 1988. Methods for 
Analysis of Musts and Wines, 2nd Ed. New York: 
Wiley Interscience. 
PATAKY, B. 1958. "Die jodometrische Bestimmung 
von Schwefeldioxyd in Wien -Die elek­
trometrische Endpunktbestimmung." Mitt. 
Kloster. 8:199-204. 
PERRY, M. C., and G. D. BEAL. 1920. "The quantities 
of preservatives necessary to inhibit and prevent 
alcoholic fermentation and the growth of 
molds." Ind. Eng. Chem. 12:253-255. 472 The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 
PERSCHEID, M., and F. ZURN. 1977. "Der Einfluss 
von Oxydationsvorgangen auf die Weinqualitat." 
Weinwirt. 113:10-12. 
PFLEIDERER, G., D. JEKEL, and T. WEILAND. 1956. 
"Uber der Einwirkung von Sulfit auf einige DPN 
hydrierende Enzyme." Biochem. Z. 328:187-194. 
PONTALLIER, P., J. P. CALLEDE, and P. 
RlBEREAU-GAYON. 1982. "Dosage de S02 libre 
dans les vins rouges par titrage potentiometrique 
automatique. Mise en evidence d'un comport­
ment specifique dans les vins jeunes." Sci. Ali­
ments 2:329-339. 
POULTON,]. R. S. 1970. "Chemical protection of 
wille against oxidation." Die Wynboer 
466July:22-23. 
RAHN, 0., and]. E. CONN. 1944. "Effect of increase 
in acidity on antiseptic efficiency." Ind. Eng. 
Chem. 36:185-187. 
RHEM, H. ]. 1964. "The antimicrobial action of 
sulphurous acid." In Microbial Inhibitors in Food, 
Ed. Molin, N. Stockholm, Sweden: Almquist, and 
Wiksells. 
RHEM, H.]., P. WALLNOFER, and H. WITTMANN. 1965. 
"Beitrag zur Kenntnis der antimickrobeillen 
Wirkung der schwefligen Saure. IV. Dissoziation 
und antimikrobeille Wirkung einiger Sulfonate." 
Z. Lebens.Forsch. 127:72-85. 
RHEM, H.]., and H. WITTMANN. 1962. "Beitrag zur 
Kenntnis der antimickrobeillen Wirkung der 
schwefligen Saure. I. Ubersicht uber ein­
flussnehmende Faktoren auf die an­
timikrobeillen Wirkung der schwefligen Saure." 
Z. Lebens.Forsch. 118:413-425. 
RIBEREAU-GAYON,]. 1933. Contribution des oxyda­
tions et reductions dans les vins. Application a 
l'etude du vieillissement et des casses. Doc. the­
sis, Bordeaux, France: University of Bordeaux. 
ROMANO, P., and G. SUZZI. 1992. "Sulfur dioxide 
and wine microorganisms." In Wine-Microbi­
ology and Biotechnology. G. H. Fleet, Ed. pp. 
373-393. Chur, Switzerland: Harwood Academic 
Publishers. 
ROSSI,]. A., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1966. "Contribu­
tions of grape phenols to oxygen absorption and 
browning of wines." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
17:231-239. 
SAWYER, D. T. 1991. Oxygen Chemistry, p. 112. New 
York: Oxford University Press. 
SAYAVEDRA-SOTO, L. A., and M. W. MONTGOMERY. 
1986. "Inhibition of polyphenoloxidase by sul­
fite." J. Food. Sci. 51:1531-1536. SCHANDERL, H. 1959. Die Mikrobiologie des Mostes und 
Weines. 2nd Ed. Stuttgart, Germany: Eugen Ul­
mer. 
SCHIMZ, K.-L. 1980. "The effect of sulfite on the 
yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Arch. Microbiol. 
125:89-95. 
SCHIMZ, K.-L., and H. HOLZER. 1979. "Rapid de­
crease of ATP content in intact cells of Saccha­
romyces cerevisiae after incubation with low con­
centrations of sulfite." Arch. Microbiol. 121: 
225-229. 
SCHNEYDER, ]., and G. VLCEK. 1977. "Massanaly­
tische Bestimmung der freien Schwefligen Saure 
in Wein mit Jodsaure." Mitt. Klost. Rebe Wein 
Obstbau Frucht. 27:87-88. 
SCHOPPER, ].-F., and]. AERNY. 1985. "Le role de 
l'anhydride sulfureux en vinification." Bull. 
OJ.V.58(652-653):515-542. 
SCHROETER, L. C. 1966. Sulfur Dioxide. Applications in 
Foods, Beverages and Pharmaceuticals. Oxford, UK: 
Pergamon Press. 
SHERWOOD, T. K. 1925. "Solubilities of sulfur diox­
ide and ammonia in water." Ind. Eng. Chem. 
17:745-747. 
STRATFORD, M., and A. H. ROSE. 1986. "Transport 
of sulphur dioxide by Saccharomyces cerevisiae." J. 
Gen. Microbiol. 132:1-6. 
SUDRAUD, P., and S. CHAUVET. 1985. "Activite antile­
vure de l'anhydride sulfureux moleculaire." 
Conn. Vigne Vin 19:31-40. 
TENSCHER, A. C. 1986. The kinetics of sulfite- hydro­
gen-sulfite-binding with acetaldehyde and pyru­
vic acid. M.S. thesis, Davis, CA: University of 
California. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L., and P. D. BOSIA. 1984. "La 
prima constante di dissociazione dell'acido sol­
foroso." Vini d'ltalia 26:7-14. 
UZUKA, Y., and T. NOMURA. 1986. "Determination 
of sulfite resistance in wine yeasts." Proc. 6th 
Aust. Wine Ind. Tech. Conj., T. H. Lee, Ed., 
p.141-145. 
UZUKA, Y., R. TANAKA, T. NOMURA, and K. TANAKA. 
1985. "Method for the determination of sulfite 
resistance in wine yeasts." J. Ferm. Technol. 
63:107-114. 
VAHL, ]. M., and]. E. CONVERSE. 1980. "Ripper 
procedure for determining sulfur dioxide in 
wine." J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem. 63:194-199. VALERO, E., R. VARON, and F. GARCIA-CARMONA. 1992. 
"Kinetic study of the metabisulfite on polyphe­
nol oxidase." ]. Agric. Food Chern. 40:904-908. 
VAN UDEN, N., P. ABRANCHES, and C. CABECA-SILVA. 
1968. "Temperature functions of thermal death 
in yeasts and their relation to the maximum 
temperature for growth." Arch. Mikrobiol. 
61:381-393. 
VANDERSCHMITI, D.]., K. S. VITOS, F. M. HUENEKENS, 
and K. G. SCRIMGEOUR. 1967. "Addition of sulfite 
to folate and dihydrofolate." Arch. Biochem. Bio­
phys. 122:448-493. 
VAS, K. 1949. "The equilibrium between glucose 
and sulfurous acid." ]. Soc. Chem. Ind. 68: 
340-343. 
VILLETON-PACHOT, ]. P., M. PERSIN, and]. Y. GAL. 
1980. "Titrage coulometrique du dioxyde de 
soufre dans les vins avec detection electrochim­
ique du point equivalent." Analysis 8(9): 
422-427. 
WALKER,]. R. L. 1975. "Enzymic browning in foods: 
A review." Enz. Technol.Dig. 4:89-100. 
WEDZICHA, B. L. 1984. Chemistry of Sulphur Dioxide in 
Foods. London: Elsevier Applied Science Publish­
ers. The Role of Sulfur Dioxide in Wine 473 
WEDZICHA, B. L., and 0. LAMlKANRA. 1987. "Kinetics 
of autoxidation of sulphur (IV) oxospecies in 
aqueous ethanol." Food Chem. 23:193-205. 
WEEKS, C. 1969. "Production of sulfur dioxide­
binding compounds and of sulfur dioxide by two 
Saccharomyces yeasts." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 20:31-39. 
WILDENRADT H. L., and V. L. SINGLETON. 1974. "The 
production of aldehydes as a result of oxidation 
of polyphenolic compounds and its relation to 
wine aging." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 25:119-126. 
WILLSON, K. S., W.O. WALKER, C. V. MARs, and 
W. R. RINELLI. 1943. "Liquid sulfur dioxide in 
the fruit industries." Fruit Prod.]. 23:72-82. 
WURDIG, G., and H. A. SCHLOTIER. 1968. "S02 
bildung durch Sulfatreduktion wahrend der 
Garung. 1. Versuche und Beobachtungen in der 
Praxis." Wein-Wissen. 23:356-371. 
YANG. S. F. 1970. "Sulfoxide formation from me­
thionine or its sulfide analogs during aerobic 
oxidation of sulfite." Biochemistry 9:5008-5014. 
YANG. S. F. 1973. "Destruction of tryptophan during 
the aerobic oxidation of sulfite ions." Environ. 
Res. 6:395-402. CHAPTER 13 
MUST, JUICE, AND WINE TRANSFER 
METHODS 
INTRODUCTION 
This chapter deals with the transfer of musts, 
juices, and wines by the energy imparted by 
mechanical pumps and by pressure differ­
ences. The various pumps that can be used are 
described, as well as the manner in which they 
are used. The calculation procedures for the 
sizing of pumps and of estimating flow rates 
are presented, together with typical examples. 
The transfer of juices and wines should be 
made with clean lines and well-maintained 
pumps so that there is no leakage of material, 
introduction of air, or contamination by for­
eign matter. The transfer of musts should be 
performed so as to minimize the generation of 
additional solids. 
The addresses of equipment companies 
mentioned in this chapter can be found in 
Appendix I. 
A. TYPES OF PUMPS 
Pumps are used to provide more rapid and 
convenient transfer of must ~uice and skins), 
474 juice, wine, and even pomace from one loca­
tion to another. In general, the pumps that 
are used for juice transfers can also be used 
for wine, while those that are suitable for must 
have special requirements, and the pumps that 
are designed for pomace transfer are a partic­
ular case. There is an array of manufacturers 
for some pump types such as the centrifugal 
pumps and a number of somewhat proprietary 
designs for others. 
A desirable feature for the selection of 
pumps for juice and wine applications is the 
adoption of standards such as the 3-A Stan­
dard for dairy and other food applications as 
defined by the U.S. Public Health Service. 
This standard requires that all of the wetted 
surfaces of the pump must be made of a 
300-type stainless steel or an equivalent mate­
rial in terms of corrosion resistance. It also 
requires smooth surfaces that are free of 
crevices and minimum curvature of wetted 
surfaces. The pump designs should avoid the 
use of internal threads and permit easy dis­
mantling for cleaning and inspection. 
One classification of the pumps used in 
winemaking is shown in Figure 13-1. They can Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 475 
Positive Centrifuqal 
Reciprocatinq un-Primed 
Piston Self-Primed 
Diaphraqm 
Rotary 
Lobe or Vane 
Helical Worm 
Flexible Impeller 
Peristaltic 
Elliptic Rotor 
Fig. 13-1. A classification of types of pumps used in winemaking. 
be sorted based on whether the flow rate is 
essentially proportional to the motor speed 
and other features that will be discussed in the 
following sections. There are also differences 
due to the nature of the pump drive, the 
presence or absence of speed control, and 
other considerations such as cart-mounted or 
fixed options and cleaning-in-place (CIP) in­
stallations. 
The following discussion will be by pump 
type rather than its use in winemaking, and 
consideration will be given to the pumps shown 
in Figure 13-1. Three common types are shown 
in Figure 13-2. 
1. Positive Displacement Pumps 
As the name implies, these pumps have de­
signs which can cause positive displacement of 
the fluid in the pump cavity, be it liquid or 
gas. They do not require priming as they can 
displace gas and will draw liquid in. They are more important because they have a through­
put which is in proportion to their speed and 
they can be used as metering pumps for the 
in-line addition of materials such as S02 and 
pectic enzyme solutions and bentonite slurries. 
In general, these pumps will continue to 
develop pressure at their discharge when a 
restriction or resistance develops downstream 
of the outlet. This can cause problems such as 
the separation of hoses from fittings or even 
hose rupture in some situations, if no exit is 
provided. The advantage of a predictable 
throughput is usually more important in gen­
eral transfer and metering applications. The 
more expensive pumps of this type often have 
variable speed drives so that the flow rate can 
be varied as needed. 
a. Reciprocating Piston Pumps 
The piston pumps have a reciprocating piston 
within a cylindrical cavity. The fluid is usually 
drawn in during the reverse stroke and dis-476 Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
(a ) 
(b) 
Fig. 13-2. Pumps used for juice and wine transfers; (a) Progressive cavity pump; (b) rotary vane pump; and (c) 
centrifugal pump. 
placed during the forward stroke. Some mod­
els are double-acting in that displacement can 
be occurring on one side of the piston while 
intake is occurring on the other. There are 
usually two adjacent cylinders with opposite 
strokes and these usually share the intake and 
discharge manifolds. 
These pumps are most commonly used for 
must pumps and are generally fixed in place 
next to the crusher. They can have capacities 
of 10 to 50 Tm/hr and the main manufactur­
ers include Healdsburg, Demoisy, Manzini, 
Ragazini, and Vaslin. Portable units with simi­
lar capacities which are sometimes used for 
wine transfers include the Manzini and 
Enopompe units. 
b. Progressive Cavity Pumps 
The progressive cavity (or helical worm) pumps 
have a stainless steel helical rotor which turns within a larger helical cavity within a sur­
rounding casing. The rotor is in close proxim­
ity to the casing, a similar position of each 
thread, generating a helical annulus of space 
that is tapered at each end. This helical cavity 
is displaced forward as the rotor turns, and a 
gentle pumping action results. The handling 
of must makes use of an auger section of the 
impeller that feeds the skins into the first 
pump cavity. 
This is especially desirable for the mini­
mization of the generation of fine suspended 
solids during the transfer of musts, juices, and 
wines. These pumps are commonly used for 
the transfer of shear-sensitive food and veg­
etable slurries. 
The close spacing between the rotor and 
the cavity housing can lead to abrasion by 
granular solids (sand or bentonite) and the 
pump should not be used with such slurries, and in general, not unless there is fluid within 
the cavity. 
The pumps can have capacities of up to 30 
to 60 Tm/hr and the main manufacturers 
include Mono, Neztsch, and Vaslin. They are 
often fitted with variable speed motors to per­
mit a wider range of operation. 
c. Rotary Vane Pumps 
There are many kinds of rotary vane pumps 
with the major differences being in the shape 
of the vane or lobe. There are two-, three- and 
four-segment stars and these vary in shape 
according to the model. The rotary vanes are 
mounted on parallel axles and the vanes are 
geared to rotate at the same speed in opposite 
directions. They are mounted so that as the 
lobes of one rotor move into the spaces of the 
other during a rotation, the fluid is displaced 
and swept out through the outlet. A more 
complete review is given by Little (I985). 
Rotary vane pumps can be used for must 
pumps, juice, and wine transfers. They too 
should not be used when granular materials 
are present. They are available in capacities 
from 7,200 L/hr to 30,000 L/hr and the more 
common brands are Waukesha, Triclover, and 
APV-Crepaco. 
d. Flexible Impeller Pumps 
The flexible impeller pumps have a Buna rub­
ber star wheel which is mounted in a de­
formed cylindrical housing. The axle allows 
the star fingers to be extended for the major­
ity of the rotation, but the deformed shape 
causes these to compress as the finger ap­
proaches the two o'clock position. The rota­
tion is generally in a counterclockwise direc­
tion with the inlet section being near the 
ten-o'clock to eleven-o'clock points and the 
outlet at the one-o'clock to two-o'clock points. 
These pumps have limited outlet pressure 
conditions and are more suited to wine trans­
fers over short distances. The units should not 
be run without liquid as the friction rapidly 
causes the impeller to become scorched. 
These pumps are suitable for juice and wine 
transfers only. The pumps are often referred Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 477 
to as Jabsco after one of the widely marketed 
designs, although other brands are available. 
They range in capacity from 6,000 L/hr to 
12,000 L/hr. 
e. Diaphragm Pumps 
The air-operated diaphragm pumps are recip­
rocating units in which two adjacent cylindri­
cal diaphragms are connected to an oscillating 
shaft. The shaft movement is controlled by 
compressed air, with the direction reversing at 
the end of each stroke. The speed can be 
controlled by the regulation of air supply and 
these pumps are particularly suitable for dedi­
cated applications such as fixed-in-place 
pump-over arrangements, damp and wet envi­
ronments where electrical insulation and 
grounding is difficult, and sump pumps. The 
inlet manifold is capable of feeding both 
chambers, filling one while the other is empty­
ing in an oscillating action (Rupp 1985). The 
two main manufacturers of this type of pump 
are the Wilden and the Rupp Companies, 
whose models carry the Sandpiper name. The 
flow rates of these pumps range from 3,000 to 
60,000 L/hr for air flows of 10 to 40 Lis. The 
air operating the pump does not contact the 
fluid, being on the other side of the di­
aphragm. There are now sanitary models of 
these pumps which are preferred for juice and 
wine applications. 
2. Centrifugal Pumps 
Centrifugal pumps provide rotational momen­
tum to the liquid from a rotating disc or 
impeller, rather than relying on the actual 
displacement of a fluid volume as discussed 
previously. They are not usually self-priming, 
meaning that the pump cavity must be filled 
with liquid and a continuous liquid connec­
tion exists with the inlet, in order for the 
pump to function properly when started. The 
impeller has a considerable space between its 
outside edge and the housing so that a positive 
displacement of fluid does not occur. The 
liquid intake is at the center of the impeller 
housing and the discharge is at the wall in a 478 Must, Juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
tangential outlet. The flow can be restricted at 
the outlet without development of excessively 
large pressures, and this approach is generally 
used to control the flow rate. Restriction of 
the inlet flow by long, small-diameter lines, an 
inlet valve, or a reduced inlet pipe size can 
lead to. cavitation and considerable foaming 
with wines due to the rapid removal of dis­
solved carbon dioxide. 
There are many makers of sanitary centrifu­
gal pumps (Triclover, Fristam, and APV­
Crepaco) and pumps of this kind typically have 
capacities ranging from 12,000 to 60,000 L/hr. 
3. Pomace Pumps 
There is a limited number of pumps designed 
for the transfer of red skins from fermentors 
to the press. While this transfer can be per­
formed by a specially designed pump, the op­
eration generally results in significant tearing 
of the skins and seeds with a subsequent in­
crease in the tannin pickup during pressing. 
One kind is the elliptic rotor pumps that 
operate at relatively low rotational speeds (30 
to 60 rpm) and displace the pomace cake with 
a sweeping motion of a star-shaped or an 
ovoid-shaped rotor and a scraping blade. They 
are not suitable for fluid transfer, but are 
included in the present discussion due to their 
pumping action. They are fed from an at­
tached hopper by conveying screws and have a 
large-diameter outlet tube. The Egretier and 
Diemme units are the more common pumps 
of this kind and they can have capacities of 5 
to 50 Tm (dry pomace) /hr. Another type is a 
four-bladed gear pump with an eccentric rotor 
that displaces the pomace as the clearance 
between the rotor and the outer wall reduces 
as it approaches the outlet port. The manufac­
turers of this design include Ragazini and MorL 
B. PUMP CHARACTERISTICS 
The relationship between the pressure rise 
developed at the discharge (or outlet) by a pump and the flow rate which corresponds to 
this is known as the pump characteristic. For 
positive displacement pumps this is generally a 
linear relationship with a very steep negative 
slope, as shown in Figure 13-3. This shows that 
the developed pressure rises rapidly as the 
flow is reduced due to either back-pressure or 
a flow restriction. By comparison, the centrifu­
gal pumps have a less steep, more parabolic 
curve, as shown in Figure 13-4, rising from the 
maximum flow when no resistance is encoun­
tered to the maximum pressure that can be 
developed when no flow exists. 
The pump characteristic curve is similarly 
shaped for a given design but can be altered 
by the choice of different motor sizes or im­
peller diameters and speeds, as can be seen in 
Figures 13-3 and 13-4. The efficiency of the 
pump and the suction head developed will 
also vary at different points along the charac­
teristic. The selection of a pump will usually 
be based on the region of the characteristic 
which has the highest efficiency. Kittredge 
(1985) provides a recent review of pump selec­
tion methods. 
The characteristic is especially important 
for the selection of the appropriate pump, 
taking into account the flow rate and resis­
tance in pipe arrangements and filters that will 
be used. The pump characteristic can usually 
be obtained from the manufacturer or it can 
be determined experimentally by measuring 
the flow rate and outlet pressure at various 
outlet resistance conditions. This is done by 
placing a butterfly or ball valve and a pressure 
gauge in the outlet line and measuring the 
flow rate and developed pressure at several 
valve closures. This measured characteristic will 
also show if the pump is performing at below 
the design values due to worn parts. 
C. THE CALCULATION OF 
FRICTIONAL LOSSES 
The selection and operation of pumps re­
quires some understanding of the flow condi-Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 479 
750 
co Q. 
~ 600 • 3.00 kW 
Q) 
~ 0 4.50 kW (/) 
Q) 450 0: • 6.00 kW Iii 
'';:; c 
0 7.50 kW Q) 300 
~ .... 
is " 9.00 kW 
~ 150 
::l Q. 
0 
0 5 10 15 20 25 
Fig. 13-3. Pump characteristic for a ro-
Displacement Capacity (LIs) tary vane pump. 
250 100 
CO Q. 200 80 CO • 200 mm ~ 
Q. Il'TllE!lIer Q) ~ 
~ 60 '0 • 175 mm (/) 150 (/) til Il'TllE!lIer 
~ Q) 
I " 150 mm 
'0 100 40 c 1I'TllE!IIer Q) 0 
0. .;:; 
0 
~ 0 Suction Qi 50 20 Head > 
~ 
6 12 18 24 
Flow Rate (LIs) 
(a) 
1000 100 
co 
Q. 800 80 co • 200 mm ~ 
Q) ~ Impeller 
'J 60 '0 • 175 mm (/) 600 (/) III Impeller ~ Q) 
Q. I " 150 mm 
'0 400 40 c 1I'TllE!IIer Q) 0 
0. .;:; 
0 () 0 Suction Qi 200 20 ~ Head > 
Q) 
0 
0 0 
0 10 20 30 40 50 
Fig. 13-4. The characteristic curves Flow Rate (LIs) of a centrifugal pump: a) 1750 rpm 
(b) b) 3500 rpm. 480 Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
tions which the fluid will encounter in a given 
operation, The desired flow rate, the frictional 
losses and the changes in liquid level will need 
to be known before an appropriate selection 
can be made, 
The following section provides the relation­
ships that can be used in the evaluation of a 
number of pumping and wine transfer situa­
tions, It provides the methods that can be 
employed to estimate the frictional loss associ­
ated with the dimensions and fittings of the 
transfer lines and the way in which it is related 
to differences in surface elevation and energy 
input of the pumping system. The relationship 
is generally applicable to gravity-induced and 
gas-displacement flow situations as well as those 
resulting from the action of pumps. 
1. The Energy Balance and Fluid Friction 
The energy balance of a fluid describes the 
changes in the various energy forms between 
the final and initial conditions and equates 
this to the friction that results from the flow 
and the external energy that is required from 
the pump. The differences can be taken be­
tween any two points in the flow path and 
these can be selected to simplifY the calcula­
tions. In its general form the balance is (Foust 
et al. 1960): 
dE + d[ v2/(2g cO')] + dzg/g c + D.[PV] 
= Q -Wf -IF, (13.1) 
where E is the internal energy of the fluid; v 
is the fluid velocity; z is the elevation of the 
fluid surface above a reference plane; and PV 
is the work term for gases. The heat absorbed 
by the fluid (from the surroundings and from 
friction) is represented by Q. The term Wf is 
the energy transferred to the surroundings in 
the course of the movement (this is usually the 
energy input required of the pump) and IF is 
the total fluid friction due to the piping and 
its fittings. 
For most piping and pump calculations of 
interest in winemaking, the fluids will be liq-uids and the transfers will have a negligible 
energy increase. The result is that the heat 
absorbed, the change in internal energy, and 
the expansion work can be set to zero: 
Q, dE and D.[PV] = 0, 
so that a simpler form of the energy balance 
becomes: 
d[ v2/(2g cO')] + dzg/g c + IF = -Wf 
(13.2) 
(One important situation in which this sim­
plification cannot be made is when the fluid is 
recirculated and the accumulated heat Q (due 
to friction) is not negligible and the tempera­
ture of the liquid will rise. Such a case would 
be the heat accumulation that occurs in the 
recycling flow of the retentate in most cross­
flow filtration applications). 
For most fluid flow situations, the equation 
can be further simplified by the choice of 
points over which the balance is made. For 
example, for a wine transfer between two tanks, 
the surface of the feed tank and that of the 
receiving tank would be conditions in which 
the kinetic energy term would become zero 
and the balance reduces to: 
dzg/g c + IF = -Wf, (13.3) 
and it can be seen that the pump requirement 
is simply to overcome the difference in height 
and fluid friction due to the flow path. 
Alternatively, if the tanks have the inlet and 
outlet pipes at the same level, the balance can 
be made between the outlet of the feed tank 
and the inlet of the receiving tank, so that the 
elevation term drops to zero. In this case the 
velocities at these points may be different and 
the kinetic energy term will need to be calcu-
1ated. This form of the energy balance be­
comes: This second case requires considerably 
more calculation and it is the form shown in 
Equation (13.3) which is generally used for 
pumping calculations. 
The energy balance calculation is usually 
performed on a unit mass basis so that the 
pump energy requirement Vlj, would be ex­
pressed as energy per mass of fluid. The fluid 
power requirement of the pump (and its me­
chanical or electrical equivalent) is given by: 
Fluid Power = Vljw = VljvpA, (13.5) 
where w is the mass flow rate; p is the fluid 
density; and A the cross-sectional area of the 
pipe where the linear velocity v exists. This 
power requirement is that required for the 
fluid movement only and is also called the 
liquid or water power in some industries. 
For a centrifugal pump, the fluid power 
requirement (Equation 13.5) can be written: 
Fluid Power (kW) = 9797vAH (s.g.), 
where H is referred to as the pump head, in 
meters; v is the velocity, in meters per second; 
A the cross-sectional area, in square meters; 
and s.g. is the specific gravity of the fluid. 
For the rotary vane pumps, the fluid power 
requirement (Equation 13.5) can be written: 
vAi1P 
Fluid Power (kW) = 3.67 X 105 ' 
where i1P is the differential pressure gener­
ated by the pump, in Pascals. 
When an electrical motor is used on the 
pump, as is commonly the case, the energy 
efficiency of the motor and coupling must also 
be taken into account. The actual power re­
quired, generally referred to as the brake 
power (or in older units, brake horsepower) is 
related to the fluid power by the pump effi­
ciency: 
Fluid Power 
Brake Power = ----- (13.6) Must, Juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 481 
where TJ is the fraction of the applied power 
that is transferred into fluid power. 
2. The Estimation of Fluid Friction in Pipes 
The friction that a fluid experiences as it moves 
through pipes or tubes can be expressed as a 
combination of two terms, the first is due to 
the surface of the pipe wall, while the second 
is due to shape effects which cause the fluid to 
change its flow direction. The first can be 
thought of as that caused by a length of straight 
pipe or tubing and the second is due to fit­
tings, bends, expansions, and contractions in 
the flow path. The general procedure for eval­
uating the total friction term "'i.F is to use 
available equations for the friction factor of a 
straight pipe or tube and to express the vari­
ous fittings and expansions as their equivalent 
length of straight pipe. 
The friction factor (I) is a measure of the 
energy lost by the fluid to friction and is 
numerically equal to ('iF) scaled by the ki­
netic energy of the fluid as it flows (v2 j2g), 
where v is a characteristic fluid velocity in the 
pipe. Where different pipe diameters exist, 
the term is evaluated in each section and the 
individual values totaled. 
There are general correlations of the fric­
tion factor for pipe flows in terms of the 
Reynolds number NRe, and the pipe rough­
ness, sjD. The solution procedure requires a 
trial-and-error calculation of the resulting fluid 
velocity. 
'iFD 
Friction Factor 1 = v2j2gc'iL = I[N Re, sjD], 
(13.7) 
where NRe = Dvpj j.L; and sjD is the relative 
roughness of the pipe wall. 
The general relationships between the fric­
tion factor and the Reynolds number for flow 
in tubes is usually presented in the form of 
charts and these are generally available in 
most engineering texts and handbooks (Foust 
et al. 1960; Bird et al. 1960). The friction 482 Must, Juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
factor chart shows that all flows in the laminar 
region (that is with a Reynolds number less 
than 64) behave similarly. In the turbulent 
region of higher Reynolds numbers, the fric­
tion factor becomes a function of the relative 
roughness elD also. 
a. Juice, Must, and Wine Viscosity 
The viscosity (measured in Pascal-seconds, Pa . 
s) of most fluids is temperature-dependent and 
the temperatures of interest for winemaking 
application usually range between O°C and 
30°C. The viscosity of most liquids can be 
described by a general exponential form in 
terms of the inverse absolute temperature 
(Bird et al. 1960). 
The viscosity of wine (based on a 12% by 
volume ethanol solution) can be expressed 
over the temperature range O°C to 50°C by the 
following equation, (R = 8.134J/mole/l\): 
[ 22,460 ] 
f.L = 1.287 X 10-7 exp ( 7) Pa' s, R T + 2 3.2 
(13.8a) 
and the corresponding relationship for a juice 
(based on a 22 Brix sugar solution) is: 
[ 26,900 ] 
f.L = 2.778 X 10-8 exp ( 7) Pa' s. R T + 2 3.2 
(13.8b) 
The apparent viscosity of musts is generally 
assumed to be five to 10 times that of juice at 
the same temperature. It varies depending on 
the extent to which juice and skins have sepa­
rated and the presence of stems. 
For calculations involving water flows, the 
viscosity is described by the following relation­
ship: 
[ 6,890 ] 
f.L = 8.132 X 10-5 exp ( 7) Pa' s. R T + 2 3.2 
(13.8c) 
b. Estimation of Pipe Roughness 
The pipe roughness e influences the relation­
ship between flow rate and frictional resis­
tance and must be taken into account. The pipe roughness is a measure of the finish on 
the flow surface and has an estimated value of 
2.0 X 10- 5 for stainless steel pipe, 5.0 X 10-4 
for plastic hose, and 1.5 X xlO- 4 for rubber 
hose. This is then scaled by the pipe diameter 
to produce the relative roughness e ID used in 
the friction factor charts. 
For smooth tubing typical of stainless steel 
and plastic tubing, and the use of typical pipe 
diameters used in wine transfers, the relative 
roughness can be taken to be 0.00002 and the 
friction factor in the turbulent region is de­
scribed by: 
4.513 
10glO(j) = () -2.640. (13.9) 10glO NRe 
This form can be conveniently incorpo­
rated into computer calculations for the fric­
tional loss. 
3. Friction in Pipe Fittings 
While the first component of the fluid friction 
is that due to pipe walls, the second is associ­
ated with changes in flow velocity caused by 
bends and fittings in the line. The magnitude 
of these losses will depend on both the pipe 
diameter and the nature of the fittings. These 
losses can be estimated either in terms of their 
equivalent length in pipe diameters from 
nomograms, equations, or tables or by the use 
of the K factor approach. The K factor is the 
ratio of the energy loss (due to the fitting) to 
the kinetic energy of the flowing fluid (v2/2g) 
(McCabe and Smith 1967). It is similar to the 
friction factor for straight pipes and the loss 
can then be expressed as an equivalent length 
of pipe. It is particularly useful in estimating 
the effect of discharge into and out of tanks, 
or changes in pipe or hose sizes, both situa­
tions which are of importance in wine trans­
fers. 
a. Bends and Tees 
The resistance of many common fittings have 
been determined and are resented in most 
texts dealing with piping networks and flows Table 13-1. The flow resistance of some pipe fittings 
(Foust et aI. 1960). 
Type of fitting 
900 standard elbow 
450 standard elbow 
900 long radius elbow 
Square corner elbow 
Standard tee 
flow through branch 
flow through straight 
Sharp return bend Equivalent length 
(pipe diameters) 
30 
16 
20 
57 
60 
20 
75 
(Foust et al. 1960; Messina 1985). The reSIS­
tance of fittings commonly used in wineries is 
presented in Table 13-1. 
A standard 90° elbow causes a loss equal to 
that of a pipe that is 30 pipe diameters in 
length. A long radius 90° elbow is equivalent 
to only 20 pipe diameters, while a square 
corner elbow is equivalent to 57 pipe diame­
ters. A close pattern return (or U) bend is 
equivalent to 75 pipe diameters of loss while a 
45° bend provides only 16. Flow through the 
straight run of a T fitting causes a loss equiva­
lent to a length of 20 pipe diameters and flow 
through the branch of the tee results in a loss 
of 60. 
4. Friction in Valves 
The flow resistance of valves is quite different 
between types of valves and depends also on 
the degree to which the flow is restricted. 
Valves can be a major component in the fric­
tion loss due to the fittings as evidenced by 
their use to adjust and control the flow rate. 
Their contribution to the total frictional loss 
will be especially important in short pipe lines 
and rises rapidly as the closure increases. 
a. Ball Valves 
These valves are especially desirable for appli­
cations in which there are grape skins and 
pulp present. They comprise a solid sphere 
with a large hole through its center that is Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 483 
encased by a metal block. The diameter of the 
sphere (i.e., the ball) is usually about 1.5 times 
that of the pipe and that of the hole is equal 
to that of the pipe. When in the open position, 
there is no obstruction and the pipe wall ap­
pears to be continuous. They can be used in 
conjunction with tank mixers that require the 
center of the pipe to be clear. When turned 
through 90°, the ball completely blocks off the 
pipe diameter. They provide relatively little 
resistance when fully open but will contribute 
a resistance of 50 pipe diameters in equivalent 
length at 50% closure. The valve opening is 
designed to provide a good sanitary liquid seal 
and the sharp edges will provide a further 150 
pipe diameters in resistance between the 50% 
and 60% closure positions. The resistance (ex­
pressed as the equivalent length in pipe diam­
eters) is described by the following equation: 
Resistance = 0.122 exp(0.124 [% closureD, 
(I3.10a) 
and this is shown in Figure 13-5. 
b. Butterfly Valves 
These valves are the most commonly used 
alternative to the ball valves and provide in­
significant resistance when fully open. The 
valve element is a circular disc that is mounted 
vertically in the center of the pipe so that 
when fully closed, the disc blocks the pipe 
completely. When fully open, the disc presents 
only the disc thickness to the fluid. These 
valves cannot be used with tank mixers that 
require the center of the pipe to be clear. 
There exists a chance that solids, such as skins 
or stems, can become lodged between the disc 
edge and the pipe wall and this leads to an 
incomplete seal and leakage. They can give 
rise to a resistance of 30 pipe diameters in 
equivalent length at 50% closure. Like the ball 
valves, they display an increase of 90 pipe 
diameters in resistance as the closure increases 
from 50 to 60%. The resistance is described by 484 Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
250 r---------------------------------------~ 
~ 200 
~ 
~ III 
(5 150 
Q) c. 
0: 
~ 100 c 
Q) 
~ .a. 
50 w 
o~~-*----~===x~--L---~----L---~ 
Fig. 13-5. The flow resistance of a 
ball valve. 
the following equation: o 
Resistance = 0.0~34exp(0.1l9 [% closureD, 
(I3.10b) 
and this is shown in Figure 13-6. 
c. Diaphragm Valves 
The diaphragm valves are more common in 
nonwine applications due to the difficulty in 
cleaning them. They are made up of a smooth, 
raised hump in the floor of the pipe that 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 
Percent Closure 
occupies about 30% of the flow area. From 
the roof of the pipe there is a deformable 
rubber element that is moved down until it 
reaches the raised floor surface, sealing the 
pipe. They require several revolutions of the 
valve stem to accomplish this movement. They 
are often used as part of flow control systems 
in water and utility piping and are included 
with those applications in mind. They provide 
relatively little flow resistance due to the 
smooth surface of the diaphragm and the valve 
housing. They provide only three pipe diame-
150r---------------------------------------~ 
Fig. 13-6. The flow resistance of a 
butterfly valve. ~ 
~ 
~ 
(5 
Q) c. 
0: 
~ c Q) 
~ 5 
CT w 120 
90 
60 
30 
0 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 
Percent Closure ters in equivalent length at 50% closure and 
although the resistance increases with further 
closure, it is only 20 pipe diameters at 75% 
closure. The resistance is described by the 
following equation: 
Resistance = 2.30 
+ 0.0235exp(0.0891 [% closureD, 
(I3.lOc) 
and this is shown in Figure 13-7. 
5. Expansions and Contractions in Pipe 
Diameter 
In most transfer situations there will be some 
contractions and enlargements of the flow area 
associated with the flow. These will usually be 
at the tank to pipe connections but can also 
occur if there are changes in pipe diameter 
within the lines. The estimation of the equiva­
lent pipe diameters for changes in the pipe 
diameter due to a sudden expansion or con­
traction can be made with the aid of the 
relationship between the ratio of the upstream 
and downstream pipe diameters. These have 
been determined experimentally (Foust et al. 
1960) and can be described by the following Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 485 
functions: 
K factor (expansion) 
( 2)2.00 
= 1.0 1.0 -[D1/D 2] (I3.11a) 
and 
K factor (contraction) 
( 2)1.35 = 0.5 1.0 -[D1/D 2] ,(I3.11b) 
where D 1 is always the smaller and D 2 the 
larger of the two diameters. These relation­
ships are shown in Figure 13-8 and Figure 13-9 
respectively. The relationship is also suitable 
for changes in pipe size when different hoses 
are connected, as sometimes occurs in prac­
tices. 
The relationship between the K factor and 
the equivalent length of pipe depends on the 
pipe diameter. For nominal pipe diameters of 
25, 50, and 75 mm and for K factors up to 5.0, 
the relationship is of the general form: 
Equivalent length (pipe diameters) 
= B (K factor), 
where B has the values 54, 56, and 60 for the 
25-, 50-, and 75-mm diameters respectively. 
25r--------------------------------------, 
(/) 
Q; ... 
~ 
is 
~ 
0: 
... c 
OJ Iii > ·s 
IJ w 20 
15 
10 
5 
OL- __ L-__ L-__ L-__ L-__ ~ __ ~ __ J_ __ J_ __ ~ __ ~ 
o 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 
Percent Closure Fig. 13-7. The flow resistance of a 
diaphragm valve. 486 Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
There are a number of other pipe entrance 
configurations that are less common in winery 
applications, and the resistance of these can 
be found in most text dealing with pipe flow 
calculations (e.g., Foust et al. 1960). 
6. Examples of Fluid Transfer 
The following examples illustrate the applica­
tion of these formulas to the estimation of 
flows in typical wine transfer situations. The 
calculations can be used to calculate the ex­
pected flow for a given arrangement of liquid 
levels, piping and pump size, or to calculate 
the required pump size or (applied pressure) 
in order to achieve a specified flow rate. The 
situation to be analyzed involves the transfer 
of wine from a tank in which the level is 10 m 
above the base, to an adjacent tank, initially 
empty, of similar dimensions. The flow rate 
that results for a 100-m pipeline, 50 mm in 
diameter, with 10-kW pump operating at 80% 
efficiency will be calculated. This transfer line 
includes two 90° bends, a ball valve that is 20% 
closed, and a butterfly valve that is 50% closed. 
The "kL term in Equation 13.7 will be the 
equivalent length of the transfer hose and its 
fittings, including the outlet of the first tank 
and the inlet of the second tank. Reference to 
Fig. 13-8. The flow resistance 
due to sudden expansions in pipe 
diameter. ~ 
b +' 
M u. 
Q) u c 
10 +' 
<Il 
iii 
Q) a: 1.00 
0.80 
0.60 
0.40 
0.20 
0.00 
0.00 Figure 13-8 shows that the resistance of these 
valves is 1.5 and 36 pipe diameters respec­
tively, while that of the two 90° bends (Table 
13-1) adds another 30 pipe diameters each. 
The inlet contraction and outlet expansion 
contribute another 27 and 54 pipe diameters 
in effective length. The effective length of the 
line is then the 100 m of actual length and an 
additional equivalent length of 9 m due to the 
fittings and flow changes. 
In this example, it is convenient to choose 
the liquid levels in each tank as the reference 
points at which to apply the energy balance. 
The choice of the surface also eliminates the 
kinetic energy term since the fluid velocity at 
the surface will be zero. 
Equation (13.3) is the form of the balance 
to be applied and since the unknown fluid 
velocity appears in both the fluid power and 
the friction terms, a trial-and-error calculation 
is required. 
Three points within the transfer will be 
considered; the start (when the first tank is full 
and the second tank is empty), the midway 
point (at which the levels are the same), and 
the end (when the transfer is almost com­
pleted). 
At the start, the height of the wine adds to 
the work done by the pump. An initial esti-
0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 
Diameter Ratio (dID) mate of the velocity can be made and the 
Reynolds number. This permits the evaluation 
of the friction factor by Equation (13.9) and 
the calculation of the "iF term by Equation 
(13.7). 
The balance can then be written (Equation 
(13.3)): 
b..zglg c + "iF = - Vl'J 
-10 + "iF = -Vl'J. 
The right-hand side of the equation is cal­
culated from Equations (13.5) and (13.6) and 
will include the estimated fluid velocity. De­
pending on the relative magnitude of the two 
sides, a second estimate of the fluid velocity is 
made and the procedure repeated until both 
sides are essentially equal. The flow rate at the 
beginning of the transfer is 5.68 mis, corre­
sponding to a volumetric flow rate of9.66 Lis. 
At the midway point the levels will be the 
same in similar tanks and the elevation term is 
reduced to zero. The calculation procedure 
remains the same, but with a modified energy 
balance (Equation (13.3)): 
b..zglg c + "iF = - Vl'J 
0+ "iF = -Vl'J. Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 487 
The flow rate at the midpoint of the trans­
fer is 5.23 mis, corresponding to a volumetric 
flow rate of 9.03 Lis. 
At the end of the transfer the elevation 
term is acting against the pump and the en­
ergy balance becomes (Equation 13.3): 
t:uglg c + "iF = - Vl'J 
+ 10 + "iF = -Vl'J. (13.3) 
The flow rate at the end of the transfer is 
4.95 mis, corresponding to a volumetric flow 
rate of 8.40 Lis. 
If a smaller pump (5 kW) had been used, 
the corresponding flow rates would have been 
7.78, 7.10 and 6.37 Lis at the same three 
points within the transfer. If a 75-mm-diameter 
line had been used, the corresponding flow 
rates would have been 21.1, 18.76, and 16.2 
LI s. While the effect of liquid level is signifi­
cant, it only alters the flow rates by approxi­
mately 20% in this example. 
7. Graphical Solutions 
The alternative to performing these calcula­
tions is the use of a generalized graphical 
solution procedure such as that developed by 
the Waukesha pump company. This pipe flow 
nomogram provides a means of solving the 
equations graphically and is considerably faster 
1.00 r------------------------, 
~ 
b ... () 
III 
LL 
Ql () 
C 
III ... 
(/) 
iii 
Ql ([ 0.80 
0.60 
0040 
0.20 
0.00 '--___ ..L-___ ...I.-___ ....l-___ -L. __ --=::, ... 
0.00 0.20 0040 0.60 0.80 1.00 
Diameter Ratio (Old) Fig. 13-9. The flow resistance 
due to sudden contractions in 
pipe diameter. 488 Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
~ 
! 
~~~~~~~~~~~---------+--------~ HKI J 
L-~--~~------~------~~----~IOOCI 10 100 1000 
Visl.:osity (mPa.s) 
Pump selection: 
1. Begin wilh nuid viscosily. 
2. Move up III the pipe diameler. 
J. Mllve len III Ihe now rale. 
4. Mllve dllwn In Ihe pipe lenglh. 
S. Move righl III lind Ihe pressure change. 
Gravily nllw: 
I. Begin with nuid viscllsily. 
2. Move up III Ihe pipe diameler. 
J. Lllcale the pres.~ure change. 
4. Move len III the pipe lenglh. 
S. Mllve up unlll In1loo wilh 2. 
6. F.~timale Ihe nnw rale. 
Fig. 13-10. The Waukesha pipe flow nomogram. (Recalculated and redrawn from Waukesha 1980) than hand calculation, but is less accurate. In 
many cases the graphical solution will be suf­
ficiently accurate for many transfer situations. 
The nomogram is best suited to flow problems 
that do not involve pumps, and the aim is to 
estimate the frictional loss expected for a spec­
ified flow rate in a given pipeline. The knowl­
edge of the flow rate and the expected fric­
tional loss will then permit the pump to be 
selected. For other situations such as gravity 
flows or pressurized transfers, the nomogram 
can be used to estimate the expected flow 
rate. The metric version of this nomogram has 
been drawn and is presented in Figure 13-10. 
The use of the nomogram can be illustrated 
with two practical examples that do not in­
volve pumps. The first estimates the length of 
line required to provide a specified flow rate 
under the action of gravity over a particular 
elevation. The second estimates the pressure 
required to transfer wine at a specified flow 
rate over a given length of line and up to a 
specified elevation. These will be considered 
in more detail in the following section. 
D. ALTERNATIVE TRANSFER 
METHODS 
1. Gravity Transfers 
Not all juice and wine transfers require me­
chanical pumping in order for the fluid to be 
transferred. Wineries and cellars that are lo­
cated on hillsides, or winery designs where 
different aspects of the production are at dif­
ferent levels, can usually take advantage of 
gravity for downward flows, by syphoning. Gas 
pressure may be used to return the wine to 
higher elevations. The rates of such transfers 
are generally smaller than with mechanical 
pumps, but in the case of the filling and emp­
tying of barrels this is often not a disadvantage 
but actually desirable. It is important to ensure 
that the feed tank is vented, since even with 
gravity flows, the vacuum generated is suffi­
cient to buckle the tank. Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 489 
The energy balance approach presented 
above can be used to analyze these situations 
but with the pump energy term tlj set to zero. 
Alternatively, the graphical solution using the 
nomograph can easily be applied to analyze 
these situations. The important condition is 
that now the difference in surface elevations is 
the driving force for the gravity flows (as is the 
applied gas pressure for the pressurized return 
flows). 
An example of gravity flow involves the 
transfer of wines from a tank at one level to a 
barrel at another, some 20 m below. If a 
nominal 25-mm diameter line is used, what 
length of line is required so that a flow rate of 
75 L/minute is achieved? 
The pressure difference to overcome the 
friction is related to the elevation and the wine 
density. Using the nomogram (Figure 13-10), 
the pipe diameter (mm) is located at a viscosity 
of 2 X 10- 3 (Pa· s) and drawn across until it 
intersects the flow rate line (L/ s). A vertical 
line is then drawn down to the pressure loss of 
19 kPa corresponding to the elevation. The 
length of the line required is read by interpo­
lation to be approximately 61 m. 
2. Gas-Aided Transfers 
As mentioned previously, return of liquid to a 
higher elevation using inert gas pressure is a 
very real alternative to mechanical pumping in 
smaller wineries. The lateral transfer between 
barrels and tanks is merely a special case of 
transfer in which the elevation is less impor­
tant. The added convenience of the gas trans­
fer approach is that the barrel operations are 
generally intermittent, requiring repetitive 
stopping and starting of the flow. This is not 
the best condition under which to use a me­
chanical pump with an electrical motor, even 
if a remote on-off switch lead is used. The 
alternative use of a manual shutoff in the gas 
line provides a more direct control of the wine 
flow but also has a pressure carry over. A 
double-action solenoid that shuts off both wine 
flow and the gas line simultaneously is the 490 Must, Juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 
ideal arrangement for fast shutoff without the 
carry over. 
An example of a gas-aided transfer involves 
the transfer between barrels in which one is at 
ground level while the other is 3 m above the 
ground and the 25-mm-diameter transfer line 
is 30 m long. The desired flow rate is 20 L per 
minute and the wine will be transferred by gas 
pressure. What pressure should be set on the 
regulator in order to get the desired flow rate? 
By reference to the nomogram (Figure 13-
10), the pipe diameter is located at a viscosity 
of 2 X lO -3 (Pa' s) and a line is drawn across 
to the flow rate (L/s) and then down to the 
line representing the line length (m). The 
pressure for this flow rate can be read off the 
pressure axis (2.6 kPa). This represents the 
pressure to overcome the friction in the pipe 
due to the flow rate and to this is added the 
pressure required to overcome the elevation, 
giving a value of 5.3 kPa total pressure. The 
supply vessel must be gastight and able to 
withstand the necessary pressure. As a general 
rule, the tank should be capable of withstand­
ing twice the operating pressure. Since the gas 
is in contact with the wine in such situations, 
compressed inert gases should be used rather 
than air. 
E. IN-LINE ADDITIONS AND 
TREATMENTS 
The consideration of pumping and liquid 
transfers would not be complete without some 
consideration of the measurement of flow rates 
for reasons of introducing and mixing reagents 
with juices or wines and the blending together 
of several juices or wines in particular pro­
portions. 
1. Measurement of Flow Rate and 
Volume Transferred 
Liquid flows can be measured in a number of 
ways, but the two most important commer­
cially are those that introduce some kind of flow restriction and measure the correspond­
ing pressure loss and those which are based on 
volumetric displacement. The first group in­
cludes orifice plates and the Venturi tubes, 
while the second includes several commercial 
instruments that employ a range of displace­
ment paddle wheels, turbines, or propellers 
whose rotational speed is measured. Other 
alternatives include various types of mass 
flowmeters. 
In winemaking, there are additional consid­
erations related to the presence of suspended 
solids, the ease of cleaning, and sanitizing. 
Combination meters which indicate the in­
stantaneous flow rate as well as the accumu­
lated volume are especially recommended 
since they are often the only convenient indi­
cation of the progress of a wine or juice trans­
fer, the use of a heat exchanger for the recov­
ery of energy between two wines, or process 
filtration. 
Other reasons for employing a flow rate 
indicator (and/or accumulator) is the desire 
to accurately proportion a slurry into a wine 
such as the addition of a fining agent by a 
metering pump. The use of such flow mea­
surements allows the use of in-line additions to 
be made during tank-to-tank transfers, often 
permitting the removal of the agent by a filter 
or a centrifugal separator prior to its introduc­
tion into the second tank. The addition of a 
slurry in this way ensures thorough mixing 
immediately after the addition in the turbu­
lent flow of the transfer line rather than the 
generally inefficient mixing of a large tank 
volume. Such separations or clarifications are 
far easier to operate because the solids level 
remains essentially constant throughout the 
transfer, the time taken is then just that of the 
transfer and the solids may be kept out of the 
second tank. 
Similarly, the interchange of energy from a 
cold-stabilized wine to a second, yet-to-be 
cooled wine will require good indications of 
the flow rate in order to achieve the optimal 
exchange conditions. 2. Solution and Suspension Metering 
The metering of sulfur dioxide, ascorbic acid, 
and/or pectic enzyme preparations to musts 
and juices, the introduction of nutrient mix­
tures and yeast or bacteria inocula, and the 
addition of bentonite or protein slurries are 
some of the applications that can be greatly 
improved by the in-line approach. 
The high viscosity of enzyme preparations 
or the abrasive nature of bentonite slurries 
make the use of conventional pumps impracti­
cal. A more suitable delivery system is to em­
ploy a small dispensing diaphragm pump and 
preferably one in which both the stroke and 
speed can be altered to suit the required deliv­
ery rate. Precise, proportional, and continual 
metering, as well as good downstream mixing, 
are important when small proportions of an­
other solution (such as an S02 or bentonite 
mixture) are being introduced. 
3. Mixing and Sparging 
There are a number of occasions in which two 
wines or a wine and a secondary solution are 
to be mixed. One approach is to transfer the 
wines into a tank and to proceed with the 
mixing of the tank. A more suitable alternative 
is often the use of in-line mixing devices such 
as an in-place turbine, a short section of wire 
grids or screens, or one of several proprietary 
designs of packings that are mounted within a 
section of pipe. These mixing sections can be 
added into transfer lines when needed so that 
the mixing is more extensive between the 
streams when they first come together, rather 
than attempting to develop a good mixing 
pattern within a much larger vessel. 
The same approach can be used for in-line 
gas spargers where the extent of contact be­
tween the two phases is greatly favored by an Must, juice, and Wine Transfer Methods 491 
in-line mixing device. The use of short lengths 
of pipe fitted with porous stainless steel tubing 
makes an easily added unit that is easily taken 
apart and cleaned. While the use of in-line 
sparging has been widespread for many years, 
these operations are often inefficient due to 
the formation of large bubbles and inadequate 
mixing after the point of gas injection. 
F. REFERENCES 
BIRD, R. B., W. E. STEWART, and E. N. LIGHTFOOT. 
1960. Transport Phenomena. New York: John Wiley 
& Sons. 
FOUST, A. S., L. A. WENZEL, C. W. CLUMP, L. MAus, 
and L. B. ANDERSEN. 1960. Principle of Unit opera­
tions. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
KiTTREDGE, C. P. 1985. "Centrifugal pumps: Gen­
eral performance characteristics." In Pump 
Handbook, 2nd ed., I. J. Karassik, W. C. Krutzsch, 
W. H. Fraser, and J. P. Messina, Eds. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
LITTLE, JR., C. W. 1985. "Rotary pumps." In Pump 
Handbook, 2nd ed., I. J. Karassik, W. C. Krutzsch, 
W. H. Fraser, and J. P. Messina, Eds. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
MCCABE, W. L., and J. C. SMITH. 1967. Unit opera­
tions of Chemical Engineering, 2nd ed. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
MESSINA, J. P. 1985. "General characteristics of 
pumping systems and system-head curves." In 
Pump Handbook, 2nd ed., I. J. Karassik, W. C. 
Krutzsch, W. H. Fraser, and J. P. Messina, Eds. 
New York: McGraw-Hill. 
Rupp, W. E. 1985. "Diaphram pumps." In Pump 
Handbook, 2nd ed., I. J. Karassik, W. C. Krutzsch, 
W. H. Fraser, and J. P. Messina, Eds. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
Waukesha Pump Engineering Manual. 3rd ed. 1980. 
Waukesha, WI: Waukesha Foundry Division, 
Abex Corporation. CHAPTER 14 
HEATING AND COOLING APPLICATIONS 
Process heat transfer is used at several points 
during winemaking to control or retard un­
wanted enzyme, microbial, and chemical reac­
tions. These will generally include: 
1. Must cooling in association with juice drain­
ing or skin contact prior to fermentation 
2. Juice cooling prior to fermentation 
3. Both the heating and cooling requirements 
of high-temperature short-time (HTST) de­
naturation of enzymes or to kill microorgan­
isms 
4. Heat removal for temperature control during 
fermentations 
5. Cooling of wines for control of temperature 
during storage 
6. Cooling of wines to enhance potassium bitar­
trate crystallization 
7. Energy recovery by interchanging heat be­
tween warm and cold wines 
8. Heating of juice for thermovinification 
9. Cooling and air conditioning of the winery or 
aging cellars. 
The type of heat exchanger that is best 
suited to perform a particular heat transfer 
function will generally depend on the particu­
lar conditions of the juice or wine, such as the 
492 presence of suspended skins and seeds or the 
possibility of ice formation. 
While many wineries use their process re­
frigeration for the air conditioning of the win­
ery, the temperature requirements for this ap­
plication are much warmer than most wine 
cooling applications. The use of cold refriger­
ant temperatures for ambient temperature ap­
plications is not an efficient use of a refrigera­
tion system and is a relatively expensive solu­
tion for the temperature control of a building. 
It will not be considered further. 
In general, the use of a coolant stream that 
is more than 15°C below the warm fluid tem­
perature is not a very energy-efficient situa­
tion. On the other hand, designs will usually 
require at least a 5°C temperature difference 
for acceptable transfer rates during the trans­
fer operation. A poor and energy-expensive 
solution arises when the selection of an inef­
ficient heat transfer arrangement is compen­
sated for by the use of low coolant tempera­
tures in order to get acceptable transfer rates. 
A more conservative energy strategy is to 
use the warmest coolant temperature that is practical and to have this coupled with heat 
exchangers that have high coefficients of heat 
transfer. 
The addresses of equipment companies 
mentioned in this chapter can be found in 
Appendix I. 
A. HEATING AND COOLING 
APPLICATIONS 
A general summary of the alternative types of 
heat exchangers that can be used for the vari-
0us heat transfer applications in winemaking 
can be found in Figure 14-1. The alternative 
types are shown when more than one type is 
Must 
Cooling 
Juice Heating 
or Cooling 
High Temperature 
Short Time 
Fermentation 
Cooling 
Wine 
Cooling 
Cold 
Stabilization 
Heat 
Recovery Shell and Tube 
Spiral 
Shell and Tube 
Spiral 
Plate 
Shell and Tube 
Jacket 
Plate 
Shell and Tube 
Jacket 
Scraped-Surface I 
Plate 
Shell and Tube 
Fig. 14-1. A classification of heat transfer applications 
and suitable heat exchangers. Heating and Cooling Applications 493 
suitable for the application, with the recom­
mended type listed first. 
1. Must and Juice Cooling 
The cooling of musts will generally require the 
use of a shell and tube heat exchanger, with 
large-diameter (75 mm or larger) tubing to 
minimize plugging by skins and stem frag­
ments. These units usually have large radius 
return bends that are mounted externally to 
assist in the release of possible blockages and 
for ease of cleaning. An alternative would be 
the use of a spiral heat exchanger with its wide 
flow channels. For juice cooling, both of these 
units are acceptable for turbid juices but clari­
fication by settling or mechanical means or 
the removal of seeds and stem fragments by 
screens would permit the use of a plate heat 
exchanger. 
2. High-Temperature Short-Time 
Treatments 
The application of high-temperature for 
short-time treatments for the inactivation of 
oxidative enzymes will usually involve rapid 
heating of the juice to 90°C to 95°C and hold­
ing it at this temperature for between 5 and 60 
seconds before rapidly cooling it back to cellar 
temperature. The heat exchanger that can 
perform this task most effectively is a plate 
heat exchanger, in which the juice is dis­
tributed through each alternate plate while 
the heating medium (usually steam) is flowing 
countercurrent through the plates in between. 
The holding time can be controlled using a 
length of pipe with the desired residence time 
and the juice is then cooled in a second sec­
tion of the plate exchanger in which the steam 
is replaced with refrigerated glycol. The plate 
exchanger provides a thin film of juice that 
can be heated (or cooled) from both sides, 
very rapidly, usually within a second or two. 
This arrangement also provides overall heat 
transfer coefficients that are between five to 
seven times those found in the shell and tube 
exchangers and provides the most control over 
temperatures and holding times. 494 Heating and Cooling Applications 
3. Fermentation Cooling and 
Temperature Control During Storage 
The removal of heat during fermentation can 
be achieved by the use of external cooling 
jackets on the fermentor, internal plates placed 
within the fermentor, or by an external shell 
and tube heat exchanger. The heat exchange 
is often scheduled to coincide with the pump­
over operations in medium and large fermen­
tors. The jacket or internal plate has coolant 
running through it but there is slow-moving 
juice at best on the warm side. This results in a 
low heat transfer coefficient on the juice side 
and a poor overall heat transfer coefficient for 
the arrangement. The use of the shell and 
tube exchanger provides flowing juice on the 
warm side and the coefficients are usually an 
order of magnitude higher. The same is true 
when using jackets or plates for the control of 
temperature in storage tanks. In storage situa­
tions there is even poorer circulation than in 
the fermentor, and this can result in tempera­
ture stratification. The denser, colder wine 
descends toward the base of the tank, in a 
natural convection current. The existence of 
such a current often leaves the warmest wine 
at the top unmixed and unable to be cooled 
since it is above the cooling jacket. A sec­
ondary concern with internal plates is the pos­
sibility of a refrigerant leak into the wine and 
the hindrance or need to be removed during 
cleaning. 
4. Cooling for Cold Stabilization 
The cooling of wines for stabilization is a spe­
cial case since the coolant is generally going to 
be below the freezing point of the wine and 
ice formation is to be expected. The scraped­
surface heat exchanger is designed to remove 
the ice as it forms, allowing only a thin ice 
layer to remain. Exchangers of this type can 
be used to deliberately form ice at levels such 
as 5 to 10% by volume. The ice slurry formed 
in this way can be mixed with the cool but 
icefree wine to cool it further as it melts the 
ice. It can also be used to temporarily concen­
trate the wine constituents and to favor the onset and rate of crystallization. The ice is 
usually allowed to melt back into the wine so 
that there is no net change in ethanol content 
or wine volume. 
5. Heat Recovery Options 
The heating and cooling medium will also vary 
with the application, from direct evaporation 
of a refrigerant to chilled glycol solutions, 
wine-to-wine energy transfers to steam heating. 
The kind of heat exchanger that is best suited 
for the application will also depend on the 
presence or absence of suspended solids and 
the extent to which energy is to be recovered. 
The preferred alternatives would be the plate 
heat exchanger in the absence of solids (due 
to its high coefficient) and the shell and tube 
exchanger in their presence. The extent to 
which energy is recovered is also influenced by 
the scheduling of heat transfer operations and 
the greatest improvements would appear to be 
in the sequential stabilization of wines with 
energy recovery rather than the more com­
mon parallel approach, without it. 
B. HEATING AND COOLING 
CALCULATIONS 
Traditionally, heat transfer has been primarily 
a batch operation in which the tank of must, 
juice, or wine is heated or cooled in isolation, 
with little attention to the possible alternatives 
for more efficient energy transfer. Many of the 
present cooling practices use relatively poor 
heat transfer arrangements and these require 
colder than necessary refrigerant tempera­
tures to compensate. 
In the cooling of wines to temperatures of 
O°C or below, for the induction of the potas­
sium bitartrate crystallization, it is common 
practice for several tanks to be cooled simulta­
neously and then several days later to be al­
lowed to warm up again by heat gain from the 
ambient air of the cellar. The control and 
planning of the timing of these stabilization 
treatments so that wines are treated succes-sively can reduce the energy consumption by 
as much as 70%. This can be achieved by 
interchanging the wine to be warmed up with 
the next wine to be cooled down to within 5°C 
of the stabilization temperatures with counter­
current wine flows in a plate heat exchanger. 
The refrigeration system would then be used 
to provide only the remaining temperature 
reduction, rather than the entire cooling load. 
Such an arrangement allows the interchange 
to take place in the time that it takes for a tank 
transfer to be completed rather than the more 
usual cooling period of a day or so. It also 
provides very efficient energy transfer, by al­
lowing the higher coefficient of such an ar­
rangement to provide the exchange at the 
warmest possible coolant temperature. This 
scheme would be optimized with two heat 
exchangers (one plate, the other scraped­
surface) and similar-sized treatment volumes 
of wine. 
The present, widely practiced alternative of 
employing a much colder refrigerant (often 
below the freezing temperature of the wine) 
and jacket cooling is perhaps the least energy­
efficient arrangement. The operation is more 
wasteful due to the higher electrical energy 
requirement to generate the colder refriger­
ant, the poorer transfer rate of the jacket, the 
higher heat gain from the ambient air, and 
the problems of ice formation on the inside 
wall of the tank in the vicinity of the jacket. Ice 
formation on the outside of the jacket is an 
indication of significant energy loss during 
formation, although it acts as a thermal insula­
tor once formed. The use of the jacket (or 
internal plate) also suffers from an ever­
decreasing cooling rate that is characteristic of 
batch coding. This is due to the declining 
temperature difference as the wine ap­
proaches the coolant temperature. This arran­
agement requires the longest time to reach 
the desired temperature since the rate is con­
tinually decreasing, and with larger energy 
losses, due to the time taken. With jackets, 
there is no means of recovering energy unless 
a second external exchanger is used. Heating and Cooling Applications 495 
The practice of trickling water over the side 
of fermentors and storage tanks to provide 
some evaporative cooling effect is still used in 
some areas of the world. The advantages are a 
low energy consumption option for fermenta­
tion cooling, but there are several limitations 
of this approach. The coolest water tempera­
ture that can be attained is the wet bulb tem­
perature of the surrounding air and this will 
be site specific and depend on the time of day. 
The evaporative conditions are favored in dry, 
low-humidity climates and this is not likely in 
coastal regions. Even with cool water on the 
outside wall, the heat transfer is limited by the 
coefficient at the inside surface, and the over­
all coefficient is poor. In areas where water 
hardness is a factor it can lead to appreciable 
scale deposits on the outside of the tanks and 
in some dry regions the water is too valuable 
to be used for this purpose. 
Enologists need to be able to analyze and 
compute the time required for the cooling 
loads expected for various situations. The fol­
lowing summary of design equations attempts 
to cover the various applications that might 
arise during winemaking and to provide a 
basis for the selection of suitable exchangers. 
The equations are simply presented and the 
terms defined since they are based on the 
theoretical development of others and are 
generally available in standard heat transfer 
texts (Kern 1950; McCabe and Smith 1967). 
The symbols used follow the definition of T 
for the temperature of the warmer fluid and t 
for that of the cooler fluid. The subscript 1 is 
used to refer to the entering stream and 2 for 
the leaving stream. A summary of the proper­
ties used throughout this chapter is presented 
in Table 14-l.The range of batch heat transfer 
arrangements is covered first followed by the 
continuous transfer cases. 
1. Batch Heating or Cooling with Mixing 
The following series of calculations can be 
used to estimate the time required (and heat 
loads) for the batch cooling of a tank of juice 
or wine. The assumption in this first series of 496 Heating and Cooling Applications 
Table 14-1. The density, viscosity, heat capacity, and thermal conductivity of wine-related materials at 20°C. 
DENSITY kgjm 3 
Juice 1090 Wine 990 
Water 1000 40% ethanol 940 
Ethanol 789 
VISCOSITY mPa . s 
Juice 2.55 Wine 1.55 
Water 1.00 40% ethanol 3.00 
Ethanol 1.20 Ethylene glycol 24.0 
Freon 12 0.28 Ammonia 0.12 
HEAT CAPACITY kJ jkgjOC 
Juice 3.80 Wine 4.50 
Water 4.19 Ethanol 2.34 
Ethylene glycol 1.00 
THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY W jm2 j(OCjm) 
Juice 0.60 
Water 0.610 
Ethylene glycol 0.265 
Concrete 0.076 
Cork 0.043 
Ice 2.22 
Mild steel 45.0 
Urethane 0.031 
calculations is that the tank is well mixed so as 
to provide a uniform juice temperature. There 
are several possible cases: heating with con­
densing steam, heating with hot water, cooling 
with evaporating ammonia (or freon), and 
cooling with glycol or cold water. The differ­
ences between these cases is whether the tem­
perature is constant or changing within the 
exchanger. 
The rate at which heat is removed is related 
to the volume V, heat capacity C, and temper­
ature change dT /d() of the juice or wine. It 
can also be related to the overall heat transfer 
coefficient U, the heat transfer area A, and 
the logarithmic mean temperature driving 
force, [T -t]LMTD' 
dR/d() = pVCdT/d() =FTUA[T -t]LMTD, 
(14.1) 
where T and t are the warm and cool fluid 
temperatures, respectively; () is time, and FT is Wine 0.536 
Ethanol 0.156 
Copper 384 
Glass 1.09 
Kapok 0.035 
Stainless steel 16.3 
Wood 0.21 
the extent to which true countercurrent flow 
is in effect. 
The logarithmic mean of the temperature 
differences is used because of the exponential 
rather than linear changes in temperature as 
the fluids flow through the exchanger. It pro­
vides a better measure of the effective temper­
ature difference that exists within the ex­
changer. In its complete form, the log mean 
difference is written: 
(T1 -t2) -(T2 -tl) 
[T -thMTD = In(TI -t2)/(T2 -tl)' 
(14.2) 
where (T1 -t2) is the temperature difference 
between the hot fluid entering and the cold 
fluid leaving at one end of the exchanger; and 
(T2 -tl) is that at the other end. 
The FT term is a correction factor for the 
temperature difference that accounts for the 
extent to which cross-flow and cocurrent flows exist within the exchanger. For true counter­
current flow the FT factor is unity, but with 
certain flow arrangements, such as multiple 
passes of one of the fluids, then it will be 
something less than one. A discussion of this 
factor as it relates to particular exchangers is 
given in section c-2 of this chapter. 
a. Jacketed Heating 
The widespread use of jackets makes them an 
important case to consider even though the 
heating case is not common and the efficiency 
of their transfer is poor. The general form of 
the heat transfer equation becomes: 
dH/d8 = pVcdT/d8 =FTUA[T -thMTD 
(I4.3a) 
where W is the mass flow rate of the heating 
fluid; C is its heat capacity; W' is the conden­
sation rate; and A is the latent heat of the 
condensing fluid. There are two situations and 
these are: 
1. If the heating medium is condensing and has 
a constant temperature, the entering and 
leaving streams have the same temperatures 
(T\ = T2) and an example of this case is the 
heating of a juice with condensing steam. 
Integration of the rate equation leads to: 
In[T -toMT -tl = FTUA/[ pVc]O, (l4.3b) 
and the fractional temperature change is 
given by: 
[T -tal![T -tl = exp(O/T), 04.3c) 
where l/T = FTUA/( pVc), and T is the time 
constant of the temperature response. Larger 
values of T will mean slower responses in 
temperature. The time constant is dependent 
on the volume and heat capacity of the juice 
(or wine), the heat transfer area A, and the 
overall heat transfer coefficient U. This is true 
only in the case in which there is an excess of 
heat supplied in the form of steam so that the 
condensing temperature of the steam is con­
stant. Heating and Cooling Applications 497 
The time constant is the time required for 
63.3% of the overall temperature change to 
occur. After two time constants, 86.5% of the 
overall change will have occurred and after 
three, 95.0% will have occurred. The time 
constant can also be applied to the tempera­
ture change that is remaining after a particu­
lar time. It is l.44 times the half-time, or the 
time required for half of the change to be 
accomplished. 
2. In the absence of a phase change, the heating 
medium cools down as it heats the cooler 
stream. The temperature of the heating fluid 
is not constant, T\ is greater than T2 and an 
example of this case is the heating of a juice 
with hot water. The fractional temperature 
change is given by: 
where l/T = WC/( pVc)[K\ -ll!K\ and K\ 
= exp(FTUA/WC). 
The time constant T is now also dependant 
on the K \, which involves the flow rate and 
heat capacity of the heating fluid as well as 
the properties of the exchanger. 
b. Jacketed Cooling 
The widespread use of jackets for the cooling 
of juices in smaller tanks and fermentors makes 
this case especially important. The general 
form for the jacket cooling equation is: 
dH/d8 = pVcdT /d8 = FTUA[T -t lIMTD 
= wc[t 1 -t21 = Wi A, (l4.4a) 
where w is the mass flow rate; c is the heat 
capacity of the cooling fluid; and w I is the 
evaporation rate; and A is the latent heat of 
the evaporating fluid. There are two situations 
and these are: 
l. If the cooling medium is evaporating and has 
constant temperature, the entering and leav­
ing streams are the same, T\ = T2 and this is 
the case of cooling a juice with an evaporat­
ing refrigerant such as ammonia. 
Integration of the rate equation leads to: 
In[to -Tl![t -Tl = FTUA/[ pVc]O, 
(l4.4b) 498 Heating and Cooling Applications 
and the fractional temperature change is 
given by: 
[to -T lI[t -T 1 = exp( £1/7), (l4Ac) 
where 1/7 = FTUA/( pVc). 
The effect of the coolant temperature on 
the rate of juice cooling is shown in Figure 
14-2. A 5-kL volume of juice that is well mixed 
is being cooled by an evaporating ammonia 
in a jacket with a heat transfer area of 8m 2. 
The juice, initially at 30oe, is cooled to only 
24°e after 10 hours with the 15°e ammonia, 
but even with a coolant at oDe, the tempera­
ture has only fallen to 16°e after the same 
period. The poor overall coefficient of this 
arrangement is the reason for the slow cool­
ing rate. 
2. In the absence of a phase change, the cooling 
medium heats up as it cools the warmer fluid, 
the temperature of the cooling fluid is not 
constant, t1 is less than t2 and an example of 
this case is the cooling of the juice with glycol 
or cold water. The fractional temperature 
change is given by: 
where 1/7 = wc/( pVc)[K 2 -ll/K2 and K2 
= exp(FTUA/wc). 
Like the heating case above, the time con­
stant 7 is now also dependant on K2, which 
involves the flow rate and heat capacity of the cooling fluid as well as the properties of the 
exchanger. 
Higher values of the overall heat transfer 
coefficient U (by mixing or more turbulent 
flow across the heat transfer surface) or A 
(larger heat transfer area) lead to smaller 
time constants and faster response; higher 
values of V lead to larger time constants and 
slower temperature response. In wine and 
juice applications, there is little variation in 
the juice properties density p and heat capac­
ity C. 
The alternative to the use of jacketed tanks 
is the use of an external exchanger and this is 
generally chosen for larger tanks and for more 
efficient heat transfer that results from higher 
overall coefficients. The exchanger most com­
monly used for this is a shell and tube unit. 
e. Heating with an External Exchanger 
Like the jacket example there are two impor­
tant cases, one involving condensation of the 
heating fluid, and the other involving cooling 
of the heating fluid. 
1. The heating medium has constant tempera­
ture, the entering and leaving streams have 
the same temperatures (T j = T2); this is the 
case of using condensing steam to heat a juice 
(wine). 
40 ,----------------------------------, 
Fig. 14-2. The effect of coolant 
temperature on the rate of juice 
cooling by a jacket in a mixed tank. Q 
~ .... 
III 
~ 
~ 
~ 30 
20 
10 
o L-~ __ ~ __ ~ __ ~ __ L-~ __ ~ __ ~ __ ~~ 
o 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Time (Hours) • 0 c 
0 5 C 
• 10 C 
0 15 C The fractional temperature change is then: 
where 1/7 = we/( pVe)[K 2 -ll/K2 and the 
variables are the same as defined previously. 
2. The heating medium cools down as it heats 
the cooler stream, the temperature of the 
heating fluid is not constant, TI > T2; this is 
the case of heating juice with hot water. 
The fractional temperature change is then: 
where 1/7 = (K 3 -1)/( pVc)wWC/(K 3WC 
-we) and K3 = exp(F TUA[l/we -l/WC]). 
Note that now the time constant is also a 
function of the flow rates of the two fluids w 
and W, and their heat capacities c and C. 
d. Cooling with an External Exchanger 
1. The cooling medium has constant tempera­
ture, the entering and leaving streams have 
the same temperature TI = T2; this is the 
case of an evaporating refrigerant cooling the 
juice. 
The fractional temperature change is then: Heating and Cooling Applications 499 
where 1/7 = WC/( pVC)[K I -l]jK I and 
the variables are the same as defined previ­
ously. 
The effect of the coolant temperature on 
the rate of juice cooling for this case is shown 
in Figure 14-3. A 5-kL volume of juice that is 
well mixed is being cooled by evaporating 
ammonia in an external shell and tube ex­
changer with a heat transfer area of 8m 2• The 
juice, initially at 30°C, is cooled to the coolant 
temperature after 10 hours. The arrangement 
shows a half-time of approximately two hours. 
The higher overall coefficient of this arrange­
ment is the reason for the faster cooling rate 
than the previous example (Fig. 14-2). 
2. The cooling medium heats up as it cools the 
warmer fluid, the temperature of the cooling 
fluid is not constant, tl < t2; this is the case of 
glycol (or cold water) cooling the juice. 
The fractional temperature change is then: 
where 1/7 = (K4 -1)/( pVc)Wwc/(K 4wc -
WC) and K4 = exp(F TUA[l/WC -l/wc]). 
Note that now the time constant is also a 
function of the flow rates of the two fluids w 
and W, and their heat capacities c and C. 
40 ,---------------------------------, 
30 
Q 
~ .... 20 III 
Qj a. E 
OJ I-
10 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Time (Hours) • 0 
0 5 
• 10 
0 15 c 
C 
C 
C 
Fig. 14-3. The effect of coolant 
temperature on the rate of juice 
cooling by a shell and tube ex­
changer in a mixed tank. 500 Heating and Cooling Applications 
2. External Heating or Cooling Without 
Mixing 
The interest in having the contents of the tank 
mixed in the above analysis goes beyond the 
simplified mathematics of the results. The heat 
transfer using jackets is generally limited by 
the resistance to transfer at the inside tank 
wall. Swirling or mixing of the wine will often 
double the coefficient and it can be seen from 
the above equations that an increase in the 
transfer coefficient U, whether using a jack­
eted tank or an external heat exchanger, will 
reduce the time required to heat or cool the 
batch. However, a second feature of having 
the tank uniformly mixed is that the mean 
driving force is continually decreasing and this 
causes the exponential approach to the final 
temperature that is characteristic of these so­
lutions. 
The alternative case, which is the more 
common situation in most wineries, is for the 
contents of the tank not to be agitated. It can 
be shown by example that the shortest time 
for heating or cooling is actually obtained if 
the fluid is taken from the bottom of the tank 
and returned to the top without any mixing of 
the two layers. The actual winery tank will be 
somewhat more mixed when the fluid is re­
turned to the tank, but it will approximate this 
case. It will be favored by tall, small-diameter 
tanks and return fittings that will favor the 
layering of the warmer fluid rather than its 
mixing. 
In the following simplified analysis, the 
heating and cooling fluids are considered to 
be isothermal and the external exchanger is 
operating in true countercurrent mode. 
a. Condensing Heating Medium 
The heating temperature T] is constant and 
the initial juice temperature is t]. The rate 
equation for the heat gain by the juice in 
terms of the logarithmic mean temperature 
difference is: 
we(t] -0 = FTUA(t j -01 
In([T] -t]j[Tj -tID. (l4.7a) The temperature of the juice as it leaves the 
exchanger during the first circulation (and 
that of the juice in the tank after the first 
circulation) is given by: 
where K 2 has been previously defined. 
The temperature at the end of N heating 
circulations is given by: 
The time taken for a circulation is pV Iw, that 
is the mass of the juice divided by the recircu-
1ation rate and the time required for N circu­
lations is then: 
() = NpV Iw. (l4.7d) 
b. Evaporating Cooling Medium 
The cooling temperature t I is constant and 
the initial juice temperature is TI• The rate 
equation for the heat gain by the juice in 
terms of the logarithmic mean temperature 
difference is: 
WC(T I -T) = FTUA(T I -T)I 
In([T -t] ]j[T] -t] D. 
(l4.8a) 
The temperature of the juice as it leaves the 
exchanger during the first circulation (and 
that of the juice in the tank after the first 
circulation) is given by: 
where K I has been previously defined. The 
temperature at the end of N heating circula­
tions is: 
T(N) = tl -(tl -T)IK~. (l4.8c) 
The time taken for a circulation is pV Iw, that 
is the mass of the juice divided by the recircu-Heating and Cooling Applications 501 
lation rate and the time required for N circu- tion) is given by: 
lations is: 
8 = NpV/W. (I4.8d) 
An example of this approach to juice cool­
ing is shown in Figure 14-4. The conditions 
are the same as those used in the two previous 
examples (Figures 14-2 and 14-3), except that 
the juice in the tank is not mixed. In this 
example the circulation time is approximately 
l.5 hours and the temperatures at l.5, 3.0, 4.5, 
and 6.0 hours correspond to those after one, 
two, three, and four circulations. It can be 
seen that the coolant temperature is essentially 
reached after four circulations (in six hours), 
even with the same coolant temperature and 
exchanger used in the example presented in 
Figure 14-3 that took 10 hours to obtain the 
same juice temperatures. 
For the case of nonisothermal heating and 
cooling fluids, the temperatures of both fluids 
leaving the exchanger is unknown. This is not 
as simple as those above but the temperature 
relations after each circulation are given by as 
follows. 
I. Heating Without a Phase Change. The 
temperature of the juice as it leaves the ex­
changer during the first circulation (and that 
of the juice in the tank after the first circula-tl = t + S(T 1 -t), (I4.9a) 
where S = [Kg -1J/[K gR -llKg = exp 
[FTUA/we(R -1) and R = we/We. 
For the second circulation, the juice tem­
perature is given by: 
(I4.9b) 
leading to: 
for N circulations. 
II. Cooling Without a Phase Change. The 
temperature of the juice as it leaves the ex­
changer during the first circulation (and that 
of the juice in the tank after the first circula­
tion) is given by: 
(I4.10a) 
where S = [Kg -1J/[K gR -llKg = exp 
[FTUA/WC(R -1) and R = we/We. 
For the second circulation, the juice tem­
perature is given by: 
(I4.10b) 
40r-------------------------------~ 
30 
Q 
~ .... 20 II! 
~ 
~ 
~ 
10 
2 3 4 5 6 7 B 9 10 
Time (Hours) • 0 
0 5 
• 10 
0 15 c 
C 
C 
C 
Fig. 14-4. The effect of coolant 
temperature on the rate of juice 
cooling by a shell and tube ex­
changer in an unmixed tank. 502 Heating and Cooling Applications 
leading to: 
for N circulations. 
These formulas will permit the analysis of 
practically all of the batch cooling situations 
which are likely to occur in winemaking. 
3. Continuous Interchange for Heating 
and Cooling 
The transfer of energy between a cold wine 
and a warm wine can be accomplished during 
the cold stabilization of wines or in the warm­
ing of wines prior to bottling. Although the 
more common approach is to allow wines to 
warm up by heat gain from the surroundings, 
this is particularly slow and inefficient in terms 
of energy usage. The ability to interchange 
and recover energy between wines, especially 
during the cold handling and storage of wines 
can be accomplished by either a plate or shell 
and tube exchanger. 
The exchange between the streams can also 
be shown to be: 
dH/dt = WC(T 1 -T2) = wc(t l -t2), 
(l4.11a) 
where Wand w are the mass flow rates; and C 
and c are the heat capacities of the two fluids. 
With wine (or juice) on both sides, the heat 
capacity terms cancel and the ratio of the 
temperature changes experienced is inversely 
related to the ratio of the mass flows W /w: 
provided that T2, the cooler temperature of 
the warmer wine is always higher than t2, the 
warmer temperature of the cooler wine with 
true countercurrent flows. 
The need for a minimum temperature dif­
ference of approximately 5°C will mean that 
not all of the excess energy in one stream can 
be captured by the other, but in most applica­
tions between 70 and 80% can be recovered. If the transfer arrangement is a shell and tube 
exchanger with more than one pass, a correc­
tion factor FT will need to be applied to ac­
count for some parallel flow within the ex­
changer. This factor is generally in the range 
0.75 to 1.0 and is further described in most 
heat exchange texts (Kern 1950). With true 
countercurrent arrangements such as the plate 
exchangers the factor becomes unity. 
C. GENERAL HEAT EXCHANGER 
DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS 
The design and selection of heat exchangers 
begins with the selection of a suitable ex­
changer type based on physical requirements 
such as the presence of solids, the possibility of 
ice formation, or a need for rapid heating and 
cooling. The design involves the specification 
of desired flow rates and temperatures and 
evaluating the overall heat transfer coefficient 
U for the type of exchanger and flow arrange­
ment. This will lead to the calculation of the 
appropriate area A that is needed to provide 
the desired transfer rate under the conditions. 
While the conditions for certain applications 
may be similar for most wineries, the flow 
rates will usually be quite specific to the win­
ery, based on typical treatment volumes and 
the choice of treatment time. 
It can be shown that the most efficient way 
to transfer heat from one fluid to another, in 
the absence of phase changes, is for the fluids 
to flow on different sides of a surface, in 
opposite directions, in what is referred to as 
countercurrent flow. This is preferred since 
the average temperature difference, the driv­
ing force for the transfer, is larger throughout 
the exchanger and the outlet colder fluid can 
even be heated to a temperature above that of 
the leaving hot fluid. The countercurrent case 
has been extensively studied and exchanger 
designs are often compared to it. There are a 
number of exchanger designs that have flow 
patterns which contains some cocurrent or 
cross-flow components and so the extent to 
which true countercurrent flow exists is of Heating and Cooling Applications 503 
interest in the design and selection of ex- and the two parameters Rand S are the heat 
changers. capacity ratio: 
1. Extent of Countercurrent Flow 
The rate of transfer dH / d (), is related to the and the thermal effectiveness: 
overall heat transfer coefficient, the heat 
transfer area, and the effective temperature 
difference (Equations 14.3 and 14.4): 
= FTUA[T -t hMTD, 
where FT is the thermal correction factor; and 
LMTD is the log mean terminal temperature 
difference. For true countercurrent flow, such 
as that exhibited by a double-pipe heat ex­
changer, the FT factor is unity and this has 
become a reference condition when other flow 
arrangements are discussed. The need to make 
exchangers more compact and requiring less 
material has led to alternative designs in which 
fluid patterns are often less than ideal in terms 
of countercurrent flow, and their performance 
is usually expressed in terms of the true coun­
tercurrent case. 
2. The Fr Factor 
The temperature correction factor FT, is a 
measure of thermal efficiency and its value will 
determine the extent to which the outlet tem­
perature of the colder fluid can approach or 
exceed that of the leaving warmer fluid. For 
shell and tube heat exchangers, the FT factor 
can be calculated from established formulas 
(Kern 1950). For the case of a 1-2 shell and 
tube exchanger, the formula takes the form: 
J(R 2 + I)lnO -S) /0 -RS) 
FT = ----(-2 ---S-[R-+-1---J-(R-'2=-+-1-) ]-) , 
(R + I)ln (2 _ S[R + 1 + J(R 2 + 1)]) 
04.12a) Standard texts provide more complete for­
mulas for other exchanger arrangements, but 
typically the results are presented in graphical 
form for the more common flow configura­
tions (Kern 1950; Saunders 1988). The corre­
sponding FT factor charts for plate heat ex­
changers have recently been published (Anon 
1986; Raju and Chand 1980; Saunders 1988). 
The thermal effectiveness S has been used by 
some authors as a measure of efficiency since 
it relates to the temperature change obtained 
within one fluid [t2 -t I] to the maximum 
possible between the two fluids [T1 -t I]. 
However, it would take an infinitely long ex­
changer for the maximum temperature rise to 
be attained. Instead, it is more practical to use 
the ratio of the heat transfer obtained to that 
of the corresponding countercurrent unit, that 
is the FT factor, as the efficiency measure. The 
correction factor approach is straightforward 
when the flow rates and terminal tempera­
tures are known, as is usual in the design 
situation. 
3. Heat Transfer Units 
An alternative design approach involves the 
concept of transfer units, in which the number 
of heat transfer units (NHTU) can be used to 
determine Sand R without calculating FT. 
This approach was developed by Ten Broeck 
(1938) for the evaluation of existing exchang­
ers for other applications in which all of the 
terminal temperatures were often not known. 
The ratio can be defined for either fluid: 
NHT~ = UA/wc or NHTU h = UA/WC, 
(14.13) 504 Heating and Cooling Applications 
and Ten Broeck (1938) and Saunders (1988) 
provide charts of NHTU curves (with Rand S 
as the parameters) for shell and tube exchang­
ers; Raju and Chand (1980) provide those for 
plate exchangers. This provides a more rapid 
calculation procedure but the designer is less 
aware of the extent of non-countercurrent 
flow. Some manufacturers use the term ther­
mal length or theta value instead of heat trans­
fer units, but this is a confusing term since it 
does not have the units of length. The number 
of transfer units can be used to classify ex­
changers with shell and tube units typically 
providing 0.5 HTU /pass while plate heat ex­
changers can provide between 2 and 4 
HTU /pass, typically with only a single pass. 
4. Specific Pressure Loss 
The transfer unit concept is also useful in 
evaluating the compromise between the pres­
sure loss expended in establishing fluid veloc­
ity within the exchanger and the correspond­
ing transfer efficiency. The specific pressure 
loss, sometimes referred to as the Jensen num­
ber, is defined: 
Je = tlP /NHTU, (14.14) 
and should be in the range 20 to 100 
kPa/HTU (3 to 15 psijHTU) for optimal ex­
changer designs (Walker 1990). 
5. The Estimation of Heat Transfer 
Coefficients 
The overall coefficient in an exchanger can be 
related to the coefficient at the inside surface 
hi' the thermal conductivity kw and thickness 
x, of tube or plate wall and the coefficient at 
the outside surface ho: 
I/U = l/hi + tlx/kw + l/ho. (14.15) 
The inside and outside coefficients depend 
on the physical and thermal properties of the 
fluids involved and the fluid velocity at the 
surface. Correlations for the heat transfer co-efficients take the general form: 
(14.16) 
where Nu is the Nusselt number (lID /k); Re is 
the Reynolds number (DC / /L); and Pr is the 
Prandtl number (C/L/k). The last term is a 
viscosity correction factor that incorporates the 
viscosity at the wall temperature. The a, x, y, 
and z are empirical constants, determined for 
the particular type of exchanger. The fluid 
properties, thermal conductivity k, viscosity /L, 
and heat capacity C are evaluated at the aver­
age temperature of the fluid and the geometry 
of the flow arrangement will determine the 
values of the diameter (or its equivalent) D 
and the mass flow rate, C. From the type of 
flow channel, the flow rate, and fluid proper­
ties, the heat transfer coefficient can be esti­
mated. 
There are correlations that can be used for 
the inside and outside coefficients, and for 
shell and tube exchangers these have quite 
different constants, while for plate exchangers 
they are the same for a given plate type. Typi­
cal values of these constants are given in Table 
14-2 for turbulent flows that would be ex­
pected in wine applications. Although the ex­
ponent of the Reynolds number is less than 
1.0, it can be seen that increasing the mass 
velocity C will increase the heat transfer co­
efficient h. The exchanger type and channel 
geometry influence the effective diameter D, 
and the mass velocity is usually a compromise 
of energy expended in the form of frictional 
loss and improved transfer coefficient. 
When the fluid involved is either evaporat­
ing or condensing, different correlations are 
used and the coefficients are typically an order 
of magnitude larger and provide an insignifi­
cant contribution to the overall resistance. The 
material used for the construction of the ex­
changer will determine the thickness, and the 
use of stainless steel rather than more conduc­
tive metals is for reasons of cleaning and sani­
tation rather than for optimal heat transfer. 
The deposition of matter onto the surface 
during extended operation is generally re-Heating and Cooling Applications 505 
Table 14-2. Summary of correlations for heat transfer coefficients. 
Exchanger type Author(s) Constants in Equations (14.16) and (14.18) 
a x y b d 
Shell and tube 
tube side: Sieder and Tate (Kern 1950) 0.027 0.8 0.333 0.14 
shell side: Kern (1950) 0.36 0.55 0.333 0.14 
Plate: 
Buonopane et al. (1963) 0.2563 0.65 0.4 0.0 
Marriott (1971) 0.374 0.668 0.333 0.15 
Cooper (1974) 0.28 0.65 0.4 0.0 
Saunders (1988) 30° Chevron 0.348 0.663 0.33 nla 
60° Chevron 0.306 0.529 0.33 nla 
Spiral: 
Overall: Finlay and Bourzutschky (1987) nla 0.8 nla nla 
Scraped-Surface 
jacket: Anton (1977) 0.0225 0.8 0.4 0.0 
inside: Skelland et al. (1962) 0.039 1.0 0.70 0.0 0.62 0.55 0.53 
van Boxtel and 
de Fielliettaz Goethart (1983) 0.0158 0.8 0.4 0.0 0.5 N/A N/A 
'Constants in Equation (14.16) Nu = aRexPrY(J.'/J.'w)' and in Equation (14.18) Nu = aRexPrY(D,N/v)b(DJD),n'f,. 
ferred to as fouling and its thermal resistance 
is usually included in the design as a fouling 
factor R f" In some cases fouling may be con­
fined to one side of the exchanger, in others, 
different factors might be applied to the two 
sides. The extent to which fouling becomes 
important is influenced by the frequency and 
nature of the cleaning cycles, and the batch 
use followed by cleaning, typical of winery 
applications should keep this to a minimum. 
The inclusion of a fouling factor ensures that 
the desired heat transfer performance can be 
obtained even when some fouling exists. In 
such cases the overall coefficient is written: 
IjU = Ijhi + !l.xjk w + Ijho + Rji + Rjo 
(14.17) 
and the values of the combined fouling factors 
might be in the range of 0.001 to 0.003 for 
shell and tube exchangers. In juice applica­
tions, more fouling due to protein denatura­
tion and polysaccharides would be expected in 
the HTST applications. In heat recovery oper­
ations, the fouling of plate heat exchangers will be considerably less than that of the shell 
and tube equivalent. The deposition of tar­
trate salts on the exchanger wall during cool­
ing is an example of fouling, but the use of the 
scraped-surface exchangers and frequent 
cleaning make this less of a concern. 
D. TYPES OF HEAT EXCHANGERS 
The most commonly used exchangers in 
wineries are of the shell and tube kind, since 
there has been limited concern about thermal 
efficiency or energy recovery when cooling 
juices and wines. The use of plate exchangers 
is more suited to energy recovery applications 
associated with more efficient potassium bitar­
trate treatments and the introduction of wine 
to wine heat exchange. The spiral exchangers 
are only rarely used in wineries today although 
they are perhaps more suited to must cooling 
than the shell and tube units commonly used 
for this application. The scraped-surface ex­
changer is ideally suited to cooling wines to 
temperatures close to their freezing point and 
their adoption will enable more efficient re­
frigerant temperatures to be employed. 506 Heating and Cooling Applications 
1. Shell and Tube Heat Exchangers 
Tube-in-tube heat exchangers are the simplest 
form of a shell and tube exchanger. A small­
diameter tube (usually 25 to 50 mm) carrying 
the fluid to be cooled (or heated) is mounted 
within a larger-diameter tube. The cooling (or 
heating) medium moves in a counter direction 
in the outer annular region. An example of 
such an exchanger is shown in Figure 14-5. 
Shell and tube units used for juice and wine 
applications often have as many as ten tubes 
within the shell and these may be connected 
in a number of ways so that the fluid being 
cooled has one or more passes by the cool 
surface. The simplest situation involves the 
juice entering the tubes from one end and 
leaving at the other, flowing countercurrent to 
the coolant in what is referred to as a 1,l or 
single-pass arrangement. The next alternative 
is for the juice to pass along five of the tubes 
to one end before it passes through a return 
Fig. 14-5. A shell and tube heat exchanger. bend and moves back to the inlet end by way 
of the other five tubes. This kind would be 
referred to as a 1,2 or double-pass exchanger. 
Other arrangements involving directional 
changes of the coolant as well would be a 2,4 
exchanger, in which the coolant makes two 
passes while the juice makes three changes in 
direction. The motivation for such arrange­
ments is the more effective transfer that re­
sults from the temperature gradients in such 
flow situations. The analysis of such exchang­
ers can be related to the logarithmic tempera­
ture difference by a design factor that de­
pends on the particular flow pattern em­
ployed. Further details of the evaluation of 
such exchangers can be found in standard 
heat transfer texts such as Kern (1950), Mc­
Cabe and Smith (1967), Foust et al. (1960) or 
Bell (1986b). 
The coolant in the shell can be either a 
glycol solution or an evaporating refrigerant. These units have overall heat transfer coeffi­
cients (OHTC) of 600 to 900 W jm2jOC. Shell 
and tube units with 75-mm-diameter tubes are 
used for must cooling and those with tubes 
> 50 mm in diameter are suitable for juice 
and wine cooling. They can also be used for 
cooling fermentations by being placed in the 
line that is used for the pump-over operation. 
2. Spiral Heat Exchangers 
Spiral heat exchangers are made of two adja­
cent flat jackets which have been rolled up 
into a coil. In a typical arrangement, there are 
two ports at the top of the unit and two other 
ports at either side at the center. The fluids 
flow in opposite directions, the fluid being 
cooled would enter at the base and move 
through several revolutions of the spiral path 
before it exits at one of the central ports. The 
coolant would enter at the opposite side at the 
center and pass through the alternate spiral 
path until it exits at the top of the unit. An 
example of such an exchanger is shown in 
Figure 14-6. 
Spiral exchangers have fluid paths which 
are between 5 and 25 mm wide and they are 
most suitable for must cooling applications. 
Overall heat transfer coefficients are in the 
range 1800 to 2500 W jm2jOC for water flows 
(Heat Exchanger 1987). Values in the range 
1600 to 4000 W /m2/oC have been reported 
with sugar cane juice (Finlay and Bourzutschky 
1987) and are calculated to be between 760 
and 1060 W jm2jOC with musts (data of Ellis 
1977). There are very few of these units in use 
in the United States although they are in more 
common use in other countries for must cool­
ing applications. Spiral exchangers made by 
Alfa-Laval, APV Crepaco, Mueller, and Schmidt 
are available in the United States. 
In the design of spiral exchangers, it is 
usual to evaluate effectiveness factors which 
are the transfer units, as previously discussed. 
These values, like the F; factor, are a function 
of the channel spacing and particular ex­
changer arrangement and standard heat trans­
fer handbooks provide design formulas for the Heating and Cooling Applications 507 
temperature changes that can occur in these 
cases. 
3. Plate Heat Exchangers 
The plates are thin and rectangular, usually 
two to three times as long as wide. The inlet 
and outlet ports are at the corners, similar to 
those of the plates of a plate filter. The plates 
are suspended from an overhead bar and held 
together by end plates. Each plate is fitted with 
a polymer gasket that acts both as a seal and 
distributor for the flow. The thin film of fluid 
that passes down the plate is between 5 and 10 
mm in thickness. An example of such an ex­
changer is shown in Figure 14-7. 
The plates generally have a wavy surface to 
promote turbulence in the film for a better 
heat transfer coefficient and generally come in 
two forms. The first, called a high theta plate, 
has low-angle chevron ridges and the second, 
called low theta plates, have more pointed 
chevrons. By alternative combinations of these 
two basic plate types, three distinct channel 
shapes can be made with different flow and 
heat transfer performance. This has been ex­
tended with the introduction of asymmetric 
plates that can permit even more subtle opti­
mization of the plate combinations to be made 
(Lines 1987). 
The fluid flow pattern can be set up in one 
of two ways, either in a parallel arrangement 
or in a series arrangement. In the parallel 
case, sometimes called the single-pass setup, 
the fluid to be heated passes into every second 
plate while the heating medium (usually steam) 
passes in the opposite direction in the alter­
nate plates. In the series case, sometimes called 
the three-pass setup, all of the fluid passes 
through the first plate before passing through 
the third and the fifth (three passes), while the 
heating medium enters from the other end so 
that countercurrent flow paths exist. The se­
ries case is more suited for nonisothermal 
heating and cooling media, while the parallel 
arrangement is preferred for isothermal heat­
ing and cooling media. The available heat 
transfer area A is (N -2) times the area per 508 Heating and Cooling Applications 
Cold Outlet 
Hot Inlet 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 14-6. A spiral heat exchanger: a) Cutaway and b) Winery installation. plate since the first and last plates have only 
fluid on one side or half of the usual area 
(Raju and Chand 1980; Bond 1981). 
For the high-temperature short-time 
(HTST) applications the stack is divided into 
two sections, the first for heating and the 
second for cooling. Steam is generally used for 
the heating medium while glycol solutions are 
generally used for the cooling medium in juice 
and wine applications. Extra plates can be 
added to increase the surface area (and hence 
the capacity of the unit). 
In the design of plate heat exchangers, it is 
usual to use an effectiveness factor, 8, which is 
the same as the number of heat transfer units 
(NHTU) previously defined. The 8 value, like 
the FT factor, is a function of the design of the 
plate selected and the plate configuration. 
There are a number of plate designs in which 
the angle of the ridges within the plate is 
varied. Those with more acute angles, while 
providing larger pressure losses per pass, have 
the higher 8 values (or more HTUs per plate) Heating and Cooling Applications 509 
and are more efficient but more costly alterna­
tives. 
Typical heat transfer coefficients for plate 
heat exchangers are in the range 3500 to 5500 
W jm2jOC for water applications (Heat Ex­
changer 1987) compared with corresponding 
values of 1200 to 1800 W jm2jOC for shell and 
tube heat exchangers (Raju and Chand 1980). 
Values of between 2400 to 3600 W jm2jOC are 
expected in juice and wine applications. Cor­
relations for heat transfer coefficients and de­
sign procedures can be found in several arti­
cles (Bond 1981; Bell 1986a; Raju and Chand 
1986a, 1986b). 
The manufacturers of plate heat exchang­
ers include the Alfa-Laval, APV-Crepaco, 
Cherry-Burrel, Schmidt and Graham compa­
nies. 
4. Scraped-Surface Heat Exchangers 
The particular application of chilling wines 
down to O°C or -2°C for the promotion of 
The Plate Heat Exchanger 
Support Inapectlon Rol .... 
Column 
Support 
Foot 
GuldeSar / 
Tighlening / 
Nut 
Lock 
W .. har 
TIghtening 
BoI1 Movable 
a..tlng 
80x 
Fig. 14-7. A plate heat exchanger: a) Exploded view. Carrying e.r 
Frame FOOl 
Shroud Fixed Cover 
HOi Oullel 
Cold Inlel 510 Heating and Cooling Applications 
Fig. 14-7. b) Winery installation. 
the crystallization of potassium bitartrate re­
quires that the wine not be allowed to freeze 
at the exchanger wall and build up to block 
the flow. With shell and tube units, use of a 
glycol temperature of -2°C or lower, will 
freeze the wine and quickly plug the ex­
changer. The scraped-surface heat exchanger 
is specially designed for this kind of applica­
tion but unfortunately it is rarely used in the 
cold stabilization of wines. 
The scraped-surface unit has a relatively 
short cylinder (0.75 m long, 0.15 m in diame­
ter) usually with two (but sometimes four) scraping blades mounted on the extremities of 
the diameter. The blades run the entire length 
of the cylinder and are mounted on a central 
spinning axle. The cylinder is chilled from an 
annular jacket which contains either expand­
ing refrigerant or a glycol solution. The axle is 
driven by an external pulley and motor and 
typical speeds are between 300 and 500 rpm 
(Anton 1977). An example of such an ex­
changer is shown in Figure 14-8. 
For wine applications, the flow is set to 
generate a predetermined percentage of ice in 
the exit stream, typically 5 to 10%. Generally Fig. 14-8. A scraped-surface heat exchanger. 
not all of the wine need be passed through the 
unit since ice formation in the stabilizing tank 
may not be desired. Each kilogram of ice 
formed has the capability to cool 73 L of wine 
by 1°C as it melts, or expressed another way, 
5% ice formation will cool the associated wine 
by the equivalent of 3.8°C as it melts. 
The inside coefficien t can be estimated from 
correlations of the form: 
where N is the rotational speed (rpm); n B is 
the number of blades; v is the vertical fluid 
velocity; and Dc and Ds are the diameters of 
the cylinder and the shaft, respectively. Heating and Cooling Applications 511 
The overall heat transfer coefficients for 
these exchangers are in the range between 
600 and 2,000 W /m2/K with water and aque­
ous extracts (Cuevas and Cheryan 1982), 500 
and 1700 with water and dilute flour solutions 
(Yamamoto et al. 1987) and 400 and 700 with 
viscous sauces (van Boxtel and de Fielliettaz 
Goethart 1983). The product-side coefficient 
was two to three times higher and found to 
vary with the square root of the rotational 
speed. The coefficients of these exchangers 
are several times those of the standard shell 
and tube exchanger even though the available 
data has been developed in the absence of ice. 
The most common commercial forms of these 
exchangers are the Contherm unit by Alfa­
Laval and models by APV-Crepaco. Some 
manufacturers offer swept-surface units which 
generally have a larger clearance, a thicker ice 
film, and, therefore, a lower heat transfer co­
efficient. These require a lower coolant tem­
perature to obtain the same cooling rate. 
5. Tank Jackets 
The widespread use of jackets for the cooling 
of small to medium-sized fermentors and stor­
age tanks is primarily one of convenience. As 
noted previously these units have very poor 
heat transfer coefficients due to the stationary 
fluid at the inside surface of the tank. The 
effectiveness of the jacket is quickly reduced as 
the size of the tank is increased since the 
jacket area per volume decreases inversely with 
the tank diameter. In many wineries the poor 
coefficient and the reduced effectiveness usu­
ally require that a very cold refrigerant tem­
perature is employed to provide adequate 
cooling capability. 
There do not appear to be any report of 
measurements of heat transfer coefficients for 
jackets but our estimates from cooling curves 
suggest that overall coefficients are in the 
range of 12 to 60 W /m2/oC, depending on 
the extent of fluid movement within the tank. 
If the diameter is increased twofold, the 
wall area is increased fourfold, the volume is 
increased eightfold, but the area per unit vol-512 Heating and Cooling Applications 
ume is halved. Small glass fermentors, 10 to 20 
L in volume, will have large values of area per 
volume and can easily provide isothermal fer­
mentations due to easy dissipation of heat to 
the surroundings. The same fermentation 
conducted on a commercial scale of 100,000 
L, with 50% of the wall area jacketed will 
require a coolant temperature of 5°C in order 
to control the fermentation at 25°C (Boulton 
1979). 
E. COOLING BY DIRECT HEAT 
TRANSFER 
Direct heat transfer occurs when the two ma­
terials are in contact with each other and heat 
transfer takes place. Common examples in­
clude the use of ice cubes to cool drinks and 
the addition of injected steam to heat milk for 
coffee. In such cases the added material trans­
fers the latent heat associated with the melting 
(or condensation) and remains in the mixture. 
The application of liquified inert gases to the 
cooling of grapes, musts, and juices has certain 
advantages over mechanical refrigeration and 
heat exchangers. These include the ability to 
cool whole grapes before they are crushed, the 
lack of residue from the resulting gas, the ease 
of developing occasional large cooling loads, 
the development of an inert headspace, the 
potential for ice formation under controlled 
conditions, and an easily transported cooling 
medium without a need for power. The cost 
usually dictates that only carbon dioxide is 
practical and there are certain safety factors 
that need to be considered in enclosed spaces. 
Carbon dioxide is ideally suited for direct heat 
transfer because it sublimes under atmo­
spheric conditions (BP = -78.4°C), that is it 
goes directly from a solid to a gas, and re­
moves the combined latent heats for fusion 
and evaporation from the surroundings. 
1. Solid Carbon Dioxide 
In a number of winery situations it is useful to 
consider solid carbon dioxide (or dry ice) as a cooling medium. When added directly to a 
juice or wine, this evaporation has the capabil­
ity of drawing the temperature down to freez­
ing conditions and to even produce ice, de­
pending on the proportions of juice and car­
bon dioxide used. The gas formed from the 
sublimation bubbles off, forming a dense layer 
above the liquid surface. It leaves no liquid or 
solid residue in the juice or wine and provides 
oxygen stripping and an inert headspace as 
well. 
Solid CO 2 can be used to cool juices or 
wines in tanks that are not fitted with normal 
refrigeration or in gondolas which are trans­
porting either whole grapes or must, and it 
has a special application to the freeze concen­
tration of small lots of juice. It has approxi­
mately twice the refrigeration effect of an 
equivalent mass of melting ice without the 
dilution effects that would be associated with 
water. Commercially, tanker delivery of liquid 
CO 2 is usually the most feasible option for the 
treatments requiring large volumes, although 
solid blocks and a snow form can also be used. 
The amount of solid carbon dioxide M 
required to cool a volume of juice V is given 
by the following balance: 
04.19a) 
where p, c, and TJ are the density, heat capac­
ity, and initial temperature of the juice; ASL 
and ALV are the latent heats of fusion and 
evaporation of CO 2; and T2 is the final juice 
temperature. The mass of ice formed in the 
juice m will be zero for the cooling applica­
tions. For whole grape applications, the mass 
of grapes can be used instead of the product 
p V. The heat capacity of the carbon dioxide 
has been neglected since its contribution is 
small when compared to the latent heat terms. 
The latent heat of sublimation for CO 2 is 
25.2 kJ/mol (or 573 kJ/kg). That for the evap­
oration of liquid CO 2 is 17.3 ig/mol (or 
393 kJ/kg). a. Cooling of juice 
In the absence of ice formation, the quantity 
of solid carbon dioxide M required to cool 
juice is given by a modified form of Equation 
(14.19a): 
When using solid CO 2 for the cooling of juices 
it will take 44.2 kg/kL to lower the tempera­
ture by 5°C, and at a unit cost of $0.75 /kg this 
corresponds to $6.6/kL/oC. 
b. Ice Formation in juice 
The latent heat of freezing for water is 0.108 
kJ/kg and once the juice temperature has 
been brought down to the freezing point of 
the juice (typically -3°C), ice will begin to 
form. This will require significant mixing to 
avoid localized freezing from the outset. Once 
the juice is at its freezing point, 0.58 kg of CO 2 
will be required for each kilogram of ice pro­
duced. The appropriate form of the heat bal­
ance (Equation 14. 19a), which includes the 
mass of ice formed in juice, is: 
(mA SLW + pVc[T j -T2]) = M[A sL + ALv], 
(14.19c) 
where m is the mass if ice formed; ASLW is the 
latent heat of water; and T2 is now the freez­
ing temperature of the juice. The other terms 
are as defined in Equation (14.19). 
There are harvest conditions in which the 
concentration of juice by 5 to 10% would be 
desirable and this is a convenient method for 
small juice volumes. At the level of 10% ice 
formation, approximately 52.2 kg of solid 
CO 2/kL of wine would be required. At com­
mercial rates for solid CO 2 of $0.75 /kg, this 
corresponds to a cost of approximately 
$39.2/kL. 
2. Liquid Carbon Dioxide 
The use of liquid carbon dioxide in a direct 
cooling arrangement is similar to that of solid Heating and Cooling Applications 513 
carbon dioxide, except that the cooling effect 
(the latent heat of evaporation and a small 
heat capacity effect) is approximately 40% 
lower. This is often compensated for by the 
ability to produce the snow form, the ease of 
transport to remote locations, the ease of han­
dling, and a lower unit price ($0.25/kg versus 
$0.75/kg). 
a. Cooling of juice 
In the juice cooling application, the quantity 
of liquid carbon dioxide, M, can be estimated 
from a modified form of Equation (14.19a): 
where the latent heat of fusion has been 
deleted. Using the above assumptions, the cor­
responding quantity of liquid CO 2 required is 
64.5 kg/1000 L for a 5°C cooling effect and 
this corresponds to a cost of $3.2/kL/oC. 
b. Ice Formation in juice 
Like the application of solid carbon dioxide, 
the liquid form can also be used to form ice in 
juices. This requires controlled flows and ex­
tensive mixing to ensure that the freezing tem­
perature of the juice is reached and localized 
freezing does not occur. If an excess of the 
liquid CO 2 is added, the temperature will fall 
to the freezing point of the juice leading to 
complete freezing of the juice rather than the 
selective removal of water as ice. The partial 
removal of water from low-sugar juices by the 
generation of 5 to 10% ice formation can be 
used to concentrate juices by 1 to 2 Brix in 
certain years, subject to legal considerations. 
The quantity of liquid carbon dioxide re­
quired, M, can be estimated from the follow­
ing form of Equation (l4.19a): 
Once the juice is brought to its freezing point, 
0.85 kg of liquid CO 2 is required for each kg 
ice produced. For the formation of 10% ice in 
juice, the corresponding mass of liquid CO 2 is 514 Heating and Cooling Applications 
76.5 kg CO 2/kL and at $0.25/kg, this corre­
sponds to a cost of $19.1/kL. 
F. REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS 
Mechanical refrigeration is used in a number 
of applications throughout the sequence of 
winemaking operations. These range from the 
cooling of must, juice, wine, or air (in cellars 
and barrel rooms) to maintaining temperature 
by heat removal during fermentation and 
storage. 
In certain locations, ambient conditions can 
be used to contribute to cooling applications 
either as evaporative water in films or cooling 
towers and as air cooling for cellars at night 
during the summer. The more reliable and 
common cooling situation will be the use of 
one or more mechanical refrigeration systems. 
1. The Refrigeration Cycle 
The principle of the refrigeration cycle is to 
allow a liquid to evaporate under reduced 
pressure, drawing the latent heat for the phase 
change from the surroundings and thereby 
cooling them. The vapor is then brought to 
higher pressure in a compressor and then 
condensed to form a liquid at this pressure. 
This liquid is then allowed to expand as it 
flows to a lower pressure through an expan­
sion valve and to evaporate again. It is the 
latent heat that is drawn from the surround­
ings that produces the refrigeration effect and 
the cost of doing this is the energy required to 
operate the compressor. 
The fluid which evaporates and is recom­
pressed is called the refrigerant, and the com­
pressor, condenser, expansion valve, and evap­
orator are the major equipment components 
in the refrigeration system. The choice of the 
fluid and pressure to which the vapor is com­
pressed determines the temperature at which 
it condenses. The pressure condition in the 
evaporator (that is, the suction pressure of the 
compressor) determines the temperature at which the evaporation takes place, and, hence 
the coldest temperature of the refrigerant. 
The expansion of the refrigerant can take 
place in a heat exchanger and provide the 
desired cooling effect directly, such systems 
are referred to as direct or direct expansion 
refrigeration systems. Alternatively, it can be 
set up to cool an intermediate fluid (such as 
water or a glycol solution) which then provides 
the cooling effect to the warm fluid in what is 
referred to as an indirect refrigeration system. 
2. Refrigerants 
The desirable features of a refrigerant are that 
it should have high latent heat, (so that less of 
it is required and so systems can be more 
compact) and evaporating and condensing 
temperatures that are practical at moderate 
pressures. The most common refrigerants used 
for industrial systems today are ammonia 
(R 717) and freon 12 (R 12, CFC-12). Ammo­
nia is poisonous and can be detected by most 
people at concentrations of a few parts per 
million in the vapor phase. It is especially 
dangerous in that sustained exposure can lead 
to a loss of detection by the nose, leading to a 
false sense of security during extended expo­
sure. It is compatible with most steels includ­
ing stainless steels but it is not compatible with 
many copper-based alloys such as brass and 
bronze or galvanized fittings. Freon 12 is odor­
less and colorless, but it is one of a family of 
the chlorohydrocarbons that are now being 
phased out of refrigeration applications, based 
on their chlorine content. At present the alter­
natives refrigerants HFC-134a, HCFC-123, 
HFC-125, and HFC-152a are being phased in 
for industrial refrigeration systems. 
3. Refrigeration Units 
Most refrigeration systems will be rated in the 
units "tons of refrigeration" (TR). This is an­
other way of saying a heat transfer rate of 3.52 
k W. The term originated from the cooling 
rate required to melt a ton of ice (2000 Ib) in 
24 hours. Since water has a latent heat of 
freezing of 334.2 kJ/kg, melting 908 kg of ice in 24 hours would be 12,644 kJ/hr or 3.52 kW 
(kJ/s). Typical systems can range from 1 to 2 
tons for small wineries to 100s of tons at larger 
wmenes. 
The efficiency of the refrigeration system 
will be expressed as the refrigeration effect 
obtained in proportion to the power required 
for compression, i.e., kW consumed per ton of 
refrigeration. For an ideal vapor (f3 = 5.74), 
the efficiency would be: 
kW/T R = 3.52kW/f3 = 0.613, 
while for ammonia (f3 = 4.85) the efficiency 
would be 0.725 kW /TR and for freon 12 (f3 = 
5.00) the value is 0.703 kW/T R. The actual 
power requirement will be slightly higher than 
these theoretical values. 
While there are ongoing efforts to find 
acceptable replacements for the freon refrig­
erants, in the short term many new refrigera­
tion installations will probably return to am­
monia as the refrigerant of choice with a re­
newed awareness of its safety requirements. 
4. Control of Refrigerant Temperature 
The temperature that the refrigeration system 
will provide during the evaporation is deter­
mined by the pressure in the evaporator, or 
correspondingly, the suction pressure of the 
compressor. The pressure to which the refrig­
erant is compressed will determine the con­
densing temperature and this is chosen (often 
38°C) so that either ambient air or water can 
be used for this purpose. 
During harvest, the temperature of the 
cooling fluid (either the refrigerant directly or 
a glycol solution) will need to be at least 5°C 
below the coolest juice or wine temperature 
when efficient heat transfer arrangements are 
chosen, often 13°C to 10°C. In some cases, 
separate systems running at temperatures more 
suited for white and red wine fermentation 
temperatures are used. At other times, for 
example during cold stabilization, wine tem­
peratures of -2°C can be desired, requiring 
coolant temperatures of -7°C. To achieve Heating and Cooling Applications 515 
this, the suction pressure at the compressor 
can be changed (decreased) to make the evap­
oration occur at a lower temperature. In poor 
heat transfer arrangements, it is a common yet 
inefficient practice to compensate by using 
much colder coolant temperatures and at a 
considerable operating expense. 
5. Temperature Requirements 
The temperatures to which juices and wines 
need to be cooled will depend on the style and 
type of wine. At the juice stage, the need for 
cooling of musts will depend on the tempera­
ture at delivery and this can range from ex­
tremes of 40°C at midafternoon on hot days to 
15°C or so during night harvesting. The extent 
of cooling will depend on the desired fermen­
tation temperature and whether fermentation 
is to be delayed by deliberately holding the 
must or juice cold. Typical desired tempera­
tures before fermentation will be 15°C to 20°C 
for white juices and 25 to 35°C for red musts. 
The specific heat of juice (and must) is 3.8 
kJ/kg/oC and the density is 1090 kg/m3, 
hence the volumetric heat capacity of juice is 
4142 kJ/kL/°C. This means that each kiloliter 
will require 4142 kJ to change the tempera­
ture by 1°C. Expressed in other forms this 
becomes 4.142 kJ /L/oC or approximately 2485 
kJ/Tm/oC as juice and 3727 kJ/Tm/oC as 
must. 
The desirable fermentation temperatures 
will vary from 10 to 20°C for white wines, 
depending on the style, and between 25°C and 
35°C for red wines. The quantity of heat re­
leased by the fermentation is independent of 
the temperature, although the rate of release 
is obviously temperature-dependent. The heat 
of fermentation is approximately 100 kJ/mole 
(Williams 1982) and with a juice or must at 22 
Brix, this corresponds to 133 kJ/L of juice. 
There will be approximately 10% of this heat 
lost in the form of water and ethanol vapor 
that leaves the fermentation with the 56 L of 
carbon dioxide released by each liter of juice, 
and there will also be some ambient losses to 
the surroundings, depending on the size of 516 Heating and Cooling Applications 
the fermentor and the cellar conditions. The 
value of 120 kJ/L is recommended for cooling 
calculations and this corresponds to 72 MJ /Tm 
as juice or 108 MJ /Tm as must. 
During storage and aging the wines will be 
held at temperatures ranging from 5°C to 15°C, 
depending on the aging strategy and wine 
style. The cooling requirements during this 
time will be initially to cool the wines to the 
desired temperature and then to make up for 
the losses to the surroundings. Wine has a 
specific heat of 4.5 kJ/kg/oe and with a den­
sity of 990 kg/m3 it has a volumetric heat 
capacity of 4455 kJ/kL/oe or 4.455 kJ/L/oe 
of wine. 
The temperatures employed for the cold 
stabilization range from -4°C to ooe for white 
wines and from ooe to 5°C for red wines, 
depending of the wine style. This application 
will require the coldest refrigerant tempera­
tures, but the load is usually distributed over 
several months. The common practice of cool­
ing a tank to the desired temperature and 
holding it for several weeks is quite energy­
intensive since this is often attempted by the 
use of jackets in small to medium-sized winer­
ies. The energy losses can also be considerable 
and it is not usual for the wine to be removed 
from the crystals and allowed to warm up by 
heat from the surroundings. The cooling re­
quirement is 4.455 kJ/L/oe and all of this will 
be lost unless heat interchange with other 
wines is practiced. The energy losses while at 
the low temperatures are related to ambient 
temperature, tank insulation, tank size, and 
wine temperature. These variables are very 
site-specific. 
6. Load Requirements 
The power consumption and the refrigeration 
capacity are related to the rate of energy 
transfer rather than the quantity transferred. 
The time in which the cooling of juices or 
wines must take place will determine these 
rates and the heat transfer system will control 
whether or not it can be achieved. For juice 
cooling, the 4.142 kJ/L/oe will translate into a cooling load of 4.142 kJ/L/hr if a 10°C 
temperature reduction is required in 10 hours 
but only half this rate if it is to be accom­
plished in 20 hours. For a 20-kL volume of 
juice, to be cooled by 10°C in 10 hours, the 
load would be 4142 kJ/hr or 1.15 kW and this 
is equivalent to 0.33 tons of refrigeration. 
The rate of heat release during fermenta­
tion displays a bell-shaped curve, building 
slowly at first, then faster to a maximum at 
approximately the middle of fermentation and 
then falling away toward the end of fermenta­
tion. For white wines fermenting at a rate of 2 
Brix/day, the rate of heat release is approxi­
mately 0.46 kJ/L/hr, while for red wines the 
rate might be as high as 6 Brix/ day, releasing 
1.36 kJ/L/hr. For a 20-kL fermentation vol­
ume this corresponds to 0.72 and 2.15 tons of 
refrigeration for the white and red fermenta­
tions respectively (Boulton 1982). 
The rates of cooling required during the 
storage of wines in tanks is dependent on 
several factors as noted previously. There are 
additional effects due to wine speed and solar 
radiation for outside storage tanks and sec­
ondary load effects due to ambient air tem­
perature and air intake rates when the process 
refrigeration is used for air conditioning within 
the building. The actual rates have to be esti­
mated on a case-by-case basis. 
7. Direct Expansion vs Intermediate Fluid 
Two of the key decisions in the design of a 
refrigeration system are the choice of the re­
frigerant temperature and the use of direct 
expansion or an intermediate fluid. In a direct 
expansion system the liquid refrigerant is dis­
tributed to the point of application and per­
mitted to vapor as it draws in heat. The entire 
system is pressurized and the volume of refrig­
erant is considerable. The alternative is to use 
an intermediate fluid with a low freezing point, 
such as an ethylene glycol solution, as the 
distributed liquid. In such systems there is no 
phase change at the application point and the 
heat transferred results in a temperature in 
the intermediate fluid. The volume of the glycol solution is then considerable and one 
exchanger, a glycol chiller, transfers heat from 
the glycol and vaporizes the refrigerant. 
The need for a colder refrigerant tempera­
ture in the intermediate system requires a 
larger compressor capacity and results in 
higher operating expenses in terms of com­
pression power and coolant pumping. This 
option also suffers from poorer heat transfer 
rates as the glycol temperature rises, and this 
can be overcome by using larger glycol flow 
rates in the exchangers and jackets, but at 
additional expense. There are also distribution 
considerations regarding liquid refrigerants 
versus intermediate fluid and the choice often 
becomes site-specific. 
The energy requirement per ton of refrig­
eration is essentially doubled as the suction 
pressure is modified to lower the refrigerant 
temperature from S.3°C to -12.2°C (Figure 
14-9). This is a compounding rate of approxi­
mately + 10% in energy for every 2.5°C drop 
in coolant temperature. For a given installa­
tion, this translates into halving the nominal 
refrigeration capacity of the system as the suc­
tion pressure is lowered to produce refriger­
ant at -12°C rather than at SoC. The effect of 
generating a refrigerant that is 5°C colder for 
500 
~ 400 
~ 
~ 300 ::J Ul 
Ul 
~ 
c 200 
0 :;::; 
~ 
UJ 100 
0 
-20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 
Suction Temperature (C) 
• Suction • Capacity 
Pressure Heating and Cooling Applications 517 
the case of an intermediate fluid system would 
result in a loss of 20% in refrigeration capacity 
for the compression system indicated. 
G. ENERGY REQUIREMENTS AND 
CONSERVATION 
While there are several stages in winemaking 
that consume electricity, the largest portion of 
the process electricity (sometimes as much as 
75%) is consumed by the refrigeration system. 
The quantity of electrical energy used will 
depend on several factors such as the propor­
tion of white to red wine produced, the extent 
of cooling, stabilizing, and conservation prac­
tices, and effects due to equipment and winery 
size. The cooling and fermentation loads might 
be expected to be similar in a given region, 
irrespective of winery size, but the energy losses 
will be related to surface area per volume, the 
extent of insulation, the choice of coolant 
temperature, and the use of heat recovery 
practices. The specific electricity consumption 
for 26 wineries in California in the late 1970s 
is shown in Figure 14-10. The specific con­
sumption ranges from 40 kWh/Tm to 120 
kWh/Tm, displaying a threefold increase over 
100 
90 
80 
70 
60 
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 
0 
10 ~ 0 c 
>-.... 
. ~ 
a 
8 :;::; 
III 
~ 
;E 
£ 
Fig. 14-9. The performance charac­
teristics of a typical ammonia refriger­
ation system. 518 Heating and Cooling Applications 
f: 
~ 
~ 
>. 100 
~ w 
0 
;;::: 
Ti 
Q) c. (/) 
10 
10 100 1000 10000 100000 1000000 
Grape Intake (T) 
Fig. 14-10. The influence of winery size on the annual energy consumption. 
a thousandfold change in grape intake. There 
is some tendency for a scale effect with the 
lower consumptions at the larger facilities, but 
there exists a threefold range even at the 
1O,OOO-Tm grape intake level. These values are 
annual figures and they do not show the varia­
tion in electrical usage throughout the year. 
The highest consumption is during the harvest 
months when juice cooling, fermentation, and 
air conditioning are responsible for most of 
the usage. The control of cellar and tank 
temperatures during aging and the extent and 
timing of cold stabilization, as well as the 
methods used will affect the electrical usage 
during the rest of the year. 
The recovery of thermal energy from cold 
wines by exchanging them with warmer wines 
which are to be chilled is not widely practiced 
in the United States. This practice reduces the 
refrigeration demand for the cold stabilization 
of wines provided the wines are cooled and 
stabilized in succession rather than all at once. 
By the use of a plate heat exchanger, a 
tube-in-tube (1,1) exchanger or shell and tube 
(1,2 or 2,4) exchangers which are dedicated 
for this application (or thoroughly cleaned 
prior to use), the cold wine can be passed 
through the shell while the warmer wine is passed through the tubes. Typically, a wine at 
O°C can be warmed up to 10°C, while an 
equivalent volume at 15°C is cooled down to 
5°C without the need for any refrigeration. 
The wine to be stabilized would then be fur­
ther chilled using a scraped-surface ex­
changer, but the energy used would only be 
one-third of that when no heat recovery is 
practiced. 
The exchange between the streams can also 
be shown to be (Equation 14.11): 
where Wand w are the mass flow rates; and C 
and c are the heat capacities of the two fluids. 
With wine (or juice) on both sides, the heat 
capacity terms cancel and the ratio of the 
temperature changes experienced is inversely 
related to the ratio of the mass flows, W /w: 
provided that T 2' the cooler temperature of 
the warmer wine is always higher than t2, the 
warmer temperature of the cooler wine with 
true countercurrent flows. H. OFF-PEAK GENERATION OF 
COOLING CAPACITY 
In a number oflocations throughout the world, 
the cost of electricity is determined by the 
time of the day at which it is used. In parts of 
California for example, the unit cost of energy 
used at midday during the summer months is 
twice that used at midnight. 
The major refrigeration loads during the 
harvest will be for the cooling of white juices 
prior to fermentation, and there are two 
strategies to reduce the cost of this cooling 
requirement. The first is the adoption of night 
harvesting, primarily by machines, to bring in 
cooler fruit that will require less cooling at the 
winery. The second is the use of off-peak elec­
tricity for the generation of this cooling capac­
ity, rather than on an as-needed basis during 
the day. The first approach is presently 
employed by a number of wineries, but the 
second will hopefully become more wide­
spread in the future. 
An off-peak system involves the use of a 
larger-than-usual insulated reservoir of a cool­
ing medium from which energy is extracted 
slowly during the low-cost period. This may be 
simply water, in either a chilled form or as ice, 
to an expanded glycol reservoir, many times 
the usual volume employed in indirect sys­
tems. The cooling reservoir can be either a 
storage tank located underground or in a 
well-insulated tank above the ground. While 
the initial expense to install such an arrange­
ment is considerable, the future savings in 
energy costs will often repay the investment in 
a short time. 
Additional advantages of such cold storage 
systems are that they can continue to provide 
cooling for a time in the event of power fail­
ure, when the usual refrigeration systems 
would not be functional. They can also pro­
vide a more uniform cooling demand that 
allows the refrigeration compressors to run 
continually for periods of time rather than 
with the intermittent starting and stopping 
that accompanies the widely used on-demand 
generation systems. Heating and Cooling Applications 519 
I. REFERENCES 
ANTON,]. D. 1977. "The Contherm scraped surface 
heat exchanger." Inst. Food Sci. Technol. Proc. 
10:137-142. 
BELL, K.]. 1986a. "Plate heat exchangers." In Heat 
Exchanger Sourcebook, ]. W. Palen, Ed., pp. 
537-547, Washington, DC: Hemisphere Publish­
ing. 
BELL, K.]. 1986b. "Preliminary design of shell and 
tube heat exchangers." In Heat Exchanger Source­
book,]. W. Palen, Ed., pp. 107-127, Washington, 
DC: Hemisphere Publishing. 
BOND, M. P. 1981. "Plate heat exchangers for ef­
fective heat transfer." The Chem. Engr. 367: 
162-169. 
BOULTON, R 1979. "Heat transfer characteristics of 
wine fermentors." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 30:152-156. 
BOULTON, R B. 1982. "Winemaking." In ASHRAE 
Handbook, 1982 Applications, pp. 38.7-38.9. At­
lanta, GA: American Society of Heating Refriger­
ation, and Air-Conditioning Engineers. 
BUONOPANE, R A., R A. TROUPE, and]. C. COOPER. 
1963. "Heat transfer design method for plate 
heat exchangers." Chem. Eng. Prog. 59(7):57-6l. 
COOPER, A. 1974. "Recover more heat with plate 
heat exchangers." The Chem.Engr. 285:275-279. 
CUEVAS, R, and M. CHERYAN. 1982. "Heat transfer 
in a vertical, liquid-full scraped-surface heat ex­
changer. Application of the penetration theory 
and Wilson plot models." J. Food Proc. Engng. 
5:1-2l. 
ELLIS,]. 1977. "The use and performance of the 
spiral heat exchanger." Proc. 3rd. Wine Ind. Tech. 
Conj., Albury, Australia. Australian Wine Re­
search Institute pp. 79-8l. 
FINlAY, E., and H. BOURZUTSCHKY. 1987. "Spiral 
heat exchangers for the cane sugar industry­
Test results." Zuckerind. 112:892-895. 
FOUST, A. S., L. A. WENZEL, C. W. CLUMP, L. MAus, 
and L. B. ANDERSEN. 1960. Principles of Unit oper­
ations. New York: John Wiley. 
Heat Exchanger Guide, 4th ed. 1987. Tumba, Sweden: 
Alfa-Laval AB. 
Heat Transfer Handbook, 1986. New York: APV. 
KERN, D. Q. 1950. Process Heat Transfer. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
LINES,]. R 1987. "Asymmetric plate heat exchang­
ers." Chem. Eng. Prog. 83(7):27-30. 520 Heating and Cooling Applications 
MARRIOTI, J. 1971. "Where and how to use plate 
heat exchangers." Chem. Eng. 78(8):127-134. 
MCCABE, W. L., and J. C. SMITH. 1967. Unit opera­
tions of Chemical Engineering, 2nd ed. New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
RAJu, K S. N., and J. CHAND. 1980. "Consider the 
plate heat exchanger." Chem. Eng. 87(16): 
133-144. 
RAJu, K S. N., and J. CHAND. 1986a. "Design of 
plate heat exchangers." In Heat Exchanger Source­
book, J. W. Palen, Ed., pp. 563-582, Washington, 
DC: Hemisphere Publishing. 
RAlu, K S. N., and J. CHAND. 1986b. "Plate heat 
exchanger and their performance." In Heat Ex­
changer Sourcebook, J. W. Palen, Ed., pp. 549-562, 
Washington, DC: Hemisphere Publishing. 
SAUNDERS, E. A. D. 1988. Heat Exchangers. Selection, 
Design and Construction. Longman Scientific & 
Technical. (New York: John Wiley & Sons). 
SKELLAND, A. H. P., D. R. OLIVER, and S. TOOKE. 
1962. "Heat transfer in a water-cooled scraped-surface heat exchanger." Br. Chem. Eng. 
7:346-353. 
TEN BROECK, H. 1938. "Multipass exchanger calcu­
lations." Ind. Eng. Chem. 30:1041-1042. 
VAN BOXTEL, L. B. J., and R. L. DE FIELLIETIAZ 
GoETHART. 1983. "Heat transfer to water and 
some highly viscous food systems in a water 
cooled scraped surface heat exchanger." ]. Food 
Proc. Engng. 7:17-35. 
WALKER, G. 1990. Industrial Heat Exchangers. A Basic 
Guide, 2nd. ed., New York: Hemisphere Publish­
ing Corp. 
WILLIAMS, L. A. 1982. "Heat release in alcoholic 
fermentation. A critical reappraisal." Am.]. Enol. 
Vitic.33:149-153. 
YAMAMOTO, H., K ITOH, S. TANEYA, and Y. SOGo. 
1987. "Heat transfer in a scraped surface heat 
exchanger." ]. Japan. Soc. Food Sci. Technol. 
34:559-565. CHAPTER 15 
JUICE AND WINE ACIDITY 
The acidity of a juice or wine, in particular the 
pH, plays an important role in many aspects of 
winemaking and wine stability (see also Chap­
ters 3, 8, and 12). The ability of most bacteria 
to grow, the solubility of the tartrate salts, the 
effectiveness of sulfur dioxide, ascorbic acid, 
and enzyme additions, the solubility of pro­
teins and effectiveness of bentonite, the poly­
merization of the color pigments, as well as 
oxidative and browning reactions are all in­
fluenced by the juice or wine pH. The titrat­
able acidity is an important parameter in the 
sensory evaluation of finished wines. It and the 
pH are also important in aging reactions. 
In certain situations, the conditions of grape 
development and maturation or microbial and 
physical changes during winemaking can cause 
imbalance in the acidity of wines and cor­
rections are required to ensure the desired 
values. It is for these reasons that a compre­
hensive consideration of both juice and wine 
acidity is presented. 
The acidity has four main features, the acids 
themselves, the extent of their dissociation, 
the resultant titratable acidity, and pH. Al­
though the titratable acidity and pH are easily 
measured quantities these values tell little about the nature of the underlying acid mix­
ture. They are resultant or dependent mea­
sures and it is the acids themselves and their 
concentrations that actually determine the 
structure of the juice acidity. It is important to 
realize that the values of pH and titratable 
acidity are also not unique, there are various 
combinations of the different acids and neu­
tralization that can give the same pH and 
titratable acidity values. 
The final aspect of the acidity relates to the 
extent to which the equilibrium is altered as 
the concentrations of the acids change. This is 
referred to as the buffering or buffer capacity 
of the mixture. It will determine the change in 
pH accompanying carbonate deacidifications, 
the malolactic fermentation, or the addition 
or precipitation of tartaric acid during wine­
making. 
A. ACID CONCENTRATIONS 
1. Tartaric Acid 
Tartaric acid is present in grapes at levels of 
between 5 to 10 giL and is usually the major 
521 522 Juice and Wine Acidity 
acid in juices and wines. It is characteristic of 
grapes and is not found in other common 
fruits. Its concentration is primarily deter­
mined by synthesis, which is cultivar­
dependent, and the final berry volume at har­
vest. The isomer found in grapes is the L( + ) 
form and appears to be synthesized from glu­
cose via galacturonic, glucuronic, and ascorbic 
acids (Saito and Kasai 1978). Tartaric acid is 
partially converted to gluconic and other acids 
by Botrytis cinerea and is degraded at a pH 
above 4 by a few bacterial strains. It is not 
modified by microorganisms at wine pH levels. 
Its partially soluble salts of potassium bitartrate 
and calcium tartrate are involved in the physi­
cal stability of wines (refer to Chapter 8 for a 
more complete discussion of this). Slowly with 
time in wine a portion is esterified with ethanol 
to ethyl bitartrate (Edwards et al. 1985). 
2. Malic Acid 
Malic acid, the most widespread fruit acid, is 
present in grapes at concentrations in the 
range 2 to 4 giL generally. It can be as high 
as 6 giL in small berries in cool growing 
conditions and nearly absent in overripe 
grapes from hot growing regions. The levels 
vary considerably with cultivar and respiration 
due to temperature conditions during matura­
tion. Its final concentration is also influenced 
by berry volume. The malic acid isomer found 
in grapes is the L( +) form and it is synthe­
sized from glucose via pyruvic acid. 
Malic acid is converted almost completely 
into lactic acid by the malolactic fermentation. 
It has limited solubility as the calcium salt and 
can be partially removed during calcium car­
bonate treatment and by yeast fermentation. 
3. Amino Acids 
The amino acids of grape juice are generally 
in the range of 1 to 3 giL depending on 
cultivar, the availability of nitrogen during 
maturation, the growing conditions, and the 
berry volume. The major acid is usually argi­
nine at levels of 200 to 800 mg/L and most 
cultivars are also high in proline at the 750- to 1500-mg/L level. Nitrogen-rich acids such as 
glutamine, asparagine, glutamic, and aspartic 
acids are usually high when nitrogen is readily 
available during the growing season. The ni­
trogen content usually assimilated by yeast 
includes all of the amino acids other than 
proline, weighted according to the number of 
available amine groups per molecule, together 
with the ammonia content. It is the most rele­
vant of several aggregate nitrogen measures 
for correlating yeast growth rates and fermen­
tation rates. Most of the amino acids will be 
taken up and incorporated into yeast cell mass 
during fermentation and thus do not con­
tribute significantly to the buffer capacity of 
wines. 
4. Inorganic Acids 
The basic inorganic species that are trans­
ported into the berries during maturation are 
involved to a lesser degree in the pH and 
buffer capacity of juices and wines. Compo­
nents such as phosphate can be found at natu­
ral levels of 300 mg/L in wine depending on 
the cultivar and berry volume. The average 
natural sulfate content of wine is 775 mg/L 
(Ough and Amerine 1988), also depending on 
cultivar and berry volume. There are also 
known effects on the inorganic anion content 
due to the rootstock, but the form of the ions 
actually taken up (i.e., dihydrogen or monohy­
drogen phosphate, or hydrogen sulfate or sul­
fate) is not well resolved. There will be slight 
effects on the acidity and buffer capacity of 
juices due to large additions of diammonium 
phosphate and these will change due to their 
utilization during fermentation. 
5. Lactic and Succinic Acids 
The lactic acid in wines is primarily derived 
from malic acid during the malolactic fermen­
tation. The concentrations in wines can range 
from 0 to 2.5 giL and the form produced 
from malic acid is the L( + ) isomer. The lactic 
acid salts are quite soluble under wine condi­
tions, and once formed this acid undergoes 
little change in concentration. Succinic acid is formed during fermenta­
tion and the levels are influenced by the malic 
and amino acid concentrations and the yeast 
strain involved. It can be found at levels in the 
range 0.5 to 1.5 giL. Its salts are quite soluble 
at the levels found in wines. 
6. Other Acids 
The levels of several other organic acids 
(acetic, galacturonic, pyruvic, a-keto-glutaric, 
etc.) are generally found in sound wines at the 
tens to hundreds of mglL levels and con­
tribute little to the titratable acidity or pH of 
either the juice or the wine. The exceptions 
are the presence of acids such as gluconic and 
other sugar acids in juices from botrytis­
infected berries. 
B. ACIDITY MEASURES 
The two most commonly measured aspects of 
juice and wine acidity are the titratable acidity 
and the pH. The titratable acidity has no 
known effect on chemical or enzyme reactions 
or microbial activity and is of primary impor­
tance only to the sensory perception of fin­
ished wines. 
One interpretation of why the titratable 
acidity is sensorially important is because at 
least a partial titration of the acidity occurs in 
the mouth by the saliva (slightly basic, contain­
ing mostly bicarbonate ions). The sensation of 
the presence of the wine causes a saliva flow 
somewhat in proportion to the quantity of 
neutralization required and this is generally 
correlated with the titratable acidity. While 
this is true for an individual judge, there is 
considerable variation in the saliva flow rate 
between individuals. 
By comparison, the pH value is merely an 
indication of the extent to which the acid 
mixture has been neutralized during grape 
maturation and acidity adjustments. It is not 
correlated with the amount of acids present 
but is more influenced by their ability to disso­
ciate or their strength. Its only sensory contri-Juice and Wine Acidity 523 
bution appears as a sensation on the tongue 
that is only detected in wines with very low pH 
(3.0 and below). 
1. Titratable Acidity 
The titratable acidity is determined by titrating 
the juice or wine to an end point with a strong 
base and expressing the number of protons 
recovered as an equivalent concentration of 
some chosen acid. In the United States the 
end point chosen is pH = 8.2 and the acid for 
reference is tartaric acid. Values range be­
tween 6 to 12 giL and are primarily influ­
enced by cultivar and berry volume. In some 
other countries, France for example, the end 
point is pH = 7.0 and the reference acid is 
sulfuric. 
The titratable acidity of grape juice, like 
most fruit juices, is always less than expected 
from the organic acid concentrations. The 
number of hydrogen ions recovered from a 
juice is typically only 70 to 80% of those ex­
pected from the analytical tartaric and malic 
acid concentrations (Boulton 1980d). This is 
because of a particular exchange mechanism 
involving protons from the grape acids and 
the potassium (and to a lesser extent, sodium) 
ions, as is described in more detail below. 
While the lower than expected titratable 
acidity has long been recognized from total 
cation and anion balances (Peynaud and Mau­
rie 1956), the special relationship involving 
only the monovalent cations has only recently 
been demonstrated (Boulton 1980a, 1980c). 
2. pH 
The pH value is an equilibrium measure of 
hydrogen ion concentration or activity and is 
affected by the degree to which the acids in a 
solution are neutralized. It is easily measured 
using a pH meter and an electrode, but the 
factors that determine its value are more com­
plicated and less obvious. It is particularly im­
portant since the extent of ionization of sev­
eral chemical components, the rate of a num­
ber of chemical reactions, and physical prop-524 Juice and Wine Acidity 
erties and microbial stability of juices and wines 
are all functions of it. 
The pH value of a juice is dependent on 
many factors including the degree of maturity 
at harvest, the cultivar, the crop level, the 
season, the soil moisture content during matu­
ration, and the mineral composition available 
to the vine. Values can range from 2.8 to 3.0 
in early-maturity fruit to be harvested for 
sparkling wine or base wine for distillation, to 
a desirable range of 3.0 to 3.3 for table wines. 
Fruit in which the exchange reactions have 
been more extensive can have pH values be­
tween 3.5 and 4.0 and even higher pH values 
are sometimes observed in extreme condi­
tions, particularly overripe grapes or in re­
gions with an extended growing season due to 
cool conditions and an absence of early rain­
fall. 
The pH of juice can undergo further 
changes during fermentation due to several 
effects. These include a shift in the dissocia­
tion constants due to the ethanol concentra­
tion, the precipitation of some potassium 
bitartrate, the utilization of some of the malic 
acid, the production of succinic acid, and the 
consumption of most amino acids (other than 
proline) by the yeast and the possibility and 
extent of a concurrent malolactic fermenta­
tion. Similarly, the pH of newly fermented 
wines can undergo similar changes during ag­
ing, the most important factors being malolac­
tic fermentation and some potassium bitar­
trate precipitation, and partial esterification of 
tartaric acid. The direction and extent of these 
changes will be described in more detail in 
later sections. 
3. The Physiological Exchange Reaction 
of Protons for Mineral Cations 
In grape cells, and most if not all plant cells, 
the organic acids are synthesized biochemi­
cally from sugars as the neutral acid anion and 
its corresponding protons. As the berry ma­
tures it transports some of the protons ob­
tained from these acids across its membranes 
in exchange for certain monovalent metal cations, such as potassium (Boulton 1980b). 
This exchange process is quite selective and 
involves only the monovalent cations, primar­
ily potassium, less so sodium, (and to a far 
lesser extent rubidium and lithium), and possi­
bly ammonium. There appears to be no effect 
on this transport mechanism due to multiva­
lent cations such as calcium, magnesium, or 
others. The relationship can then be written: 
[H+ ]equivalent of the organic acid anions, 
(15.1) 
and plots of data from juices (Figures 15-la 
and lS-lb) and wines (Figures lS-2a and lS-2b) 
confirm it. 
The loss of protons by this mechanism ac­
counts for the neutralization that occurs dur­
ing ripening. The fraction of the hydrogen 
ions from the acid pool that are lost in this 
way can be expressed as the extent of ex­
change: 
Extent of Exchange = 
[K+] + [Na+] 
[H+ ]equivalent of organic acids anions 
With no exchange, the pH would be that of 
the acid mixture, about 2.2 for wines, while 
complete exchange would lead to complete 
neutralization and a pH of approximately 7.S. 
The pH range of 3.0 to 4.0 represents a par­
tially neutralized acid mixture in which the 
extent of exchange is between 20 and 40%. 
The pH is more precisely a function of the 
extent of exchange and the ratio of the major 
acids in the buffer: 
pH = j([extent of exchange] and 
[tartaric/malic]) , 
since tartaric to malic acids have different acid 
strengths and this will affect the pH at a given 
extent of exchange. 200 
::J 170 ..... 
~ 
.5 
>. 140 .... 
'U 
~ 
Q) 110 :0 
III .... 
III 
./:l 
i= 80 
50 
50 80 110 140 170 200 
Organic Acid Equivalents (mtv1/l) 
Fig. 15-la. Relationship between titratable acidity and 
organic acid concentration in juices. 
This selective exchange is thought to be 
carried out by a membrane-bound enzyme 
known as an adenosine triphosphatase (com­
monly referred to as an ATPase), which ex­
changes three protons for three monovalent 
cations as it hydrolyzes ATP to ADP in order 
to get the energy needed for the exchange. 
200 
~ 170 
~ 
Ul c: 140 0 
"..-a 
.... 110 c: Q) 
Iii > g 
~ 80 
50 L-L._-..L. __ -'-_---''--_--'-_---' 
50 80 110 140 170 200 
Organic Acid Equivalents (mtv1/l) 
Fig. 15-lb. Relationship between monovalent cations 
(K+,Na+,H+) and organic acid concentration in juices. Juice and Wine Acidity 525 
200 
::J 170 
~ 
.5 
>. 140 • .... 
'U 
~ 
Q) 110 :0 
III .... 
~ 
i= 80 
50 
50 80 110 140 170 200 
Organic Acid Equivalents (mM/U 
Fig. 15-2a. Relationship between titratable acidity and 
organic acid concentration in wines. 
The actual energy substrate is a magnesium­
ATP complex. This enzyme is commonly 
distributed throughout plants and the most 
preferred ion is potassium which generally ac­
counts for some 90% of the uptake of this 
group (Leonard and Hodges 1973; Boulton 
1980b). While these ions in themselves have a 
200 
~ 170 
~ 
Ul c: 140 0 
"..-a 
.... c: 110 Q) 
~ g 
~ 80 
50 '--_-..L. __ -'-__ '--_--'-_---' 
50 80 110 140 170 200 
Organic Acid Equivalents (mM/U 
Fig. 15-2b. Relationship between monovalent cations 
(K+,Na+,H+) and organic acid concentration in wines. 526 Juice and Wine Acidity 
negligible effect on pH, the protons that are 
exchanged for them are lost from the acid 
equilibrium, providing a more neutralized so­
lution, a lower titratable acidity, and a higher 
pH than would be expected from the organic 
acid composition (Boulton 1980c). 
There are many aspects of vine cultivation 
that influence potassium uptake and these can 
affect the pH and titratable acidity of its grapes 
(see Chapter 2). The availability of potassium 
in the soil, the soil moisture content, the size 
and age of the root system, the number of 
clusters on the vine, and the number of days 
that the grapes are able to take up potassium 
all contribute to the potassium content at har­
vest. There are additional effects due to the 
canopy, leaf area, and water status of the vine, 
since these influence the production of sugar, 
the nonberry tissue, and the length of the 
maturation period. 
4. Buffer Capacity 
The property of a juice or wine that resists 
changes in pH during acid or base changes is 
referred to as the buffer capacity or buffer 
index. It is defined as the number of protons 
per liter that are needed to shift the pH by 
one unit, and it can be defined in either the 
acidic or basic direction. Numerically it is the 
inverse slope of the titration curve in the re­
gion of the pH of the juice or wine. It is 
important to understand because it will ex­
plain the changes in pH that result from any 
change in acidity in musts or wines. 
The units of the buffer capacity are moles 
H+ ions (or OH- ions) per liter per pH unit 
(M/L/pH) but because of the values of buffer 
capacity in juices and wines, it is common to 
express them in millimolar terms and these 
are generally in the range of 35 to 50 
mM/L/pH unit, although they can be as low 
as 25 and as high as 60 under certain condi­
tions. 
The buffer capacity is also a function of pH 
and is related to the proximity of the mixture 
pH to the pKas of the component acids as well as their concentrations. It has two components 
at pH below 7.0, one due to water and the 
other due to the acids. The equation for pre­
dicting the buffer capacity,{3, of a monoprotic 
acid in solution is (Butler 1964): 
where Ka is the dissociation constant of the 
acid; C is the concentration of the acid in all 
forms; and Kw is the ionization constant of 
water 00- 14). It can be seen that the buffer 
capacity of the acid is greatest when [H+] 
equals Ka (or when the pH is equal to the pKa 
of the acid). This relationship can be used for 
mixtures of monoprotic acids and many dipro­
tic acids (by considering them to be made up 
of two monoprotic acids). Unfortunately, this 
is not true for most of the diprotic acids found 
in grapes and wines because the second disso­
ciation is not completely independent of the 
first. 
The commonly used Henderson-Hasselbach 
equation (Segal 1976): 
[first ionization form] 
pH = pKal + log-=-[u-n-d-l-.s-so-c-i-a-te-d-a-c-i-d-=-] 
and 
[second ionization form] 
pH = pKa2 + log--:[-fi-rs-t-io-n-l-.z-a-ti-o-n-£-o-rm---:-]-
is not valid when the pKas of the diprotic acids 
are less than approximately two pH units apart 
and there is interaction between the first and 
second dissociated acid forms. This results in 
an equilibrium in which the intermediate ion 
form begins to dissociate at pH values where 
the undissociated acid is also present. Under 
these conditions, there is no intermediate pH 
range at which only two species are present 
and alternative expressions must be used to 
determine the buffer capacity and acid ioniza­
tion. Such an expression for the buffer capac-ity is given by (Butler 1964): 
[H+] 
f3 = -- + 2.303CK a1[H+] 
Kw 
([H+]2 + 4Ka2[H+] + Ka1Ka2) 
x-'------------~ 
([H+]2 + Ka1[H+] + KalKa2)2 
(1S.3) 
where Ka2 is the second ionization constant 
and the other terms are as defined in Equa­
tion (1S.2). It can be seen that the buffer 
capacity is strongly pH-dependent. The ex­
pression for a mixture of two monoprotic acids 
reduces to this form only when the Ka2 is less 
than S% of the Ka1, or expressed another way, 
when the pKas differ by more than 1.98. 
The dissociation and buffer capacity of the 
important diprotic acids in juice and wine, 
that is tartaric and malic (and also succinic 
and aspartic acids) need to be calculated in 
this manner. The dissociation curves for tar­
taric and malic acids are shown in Figures IS-3 
and IS-4. Sulfur dioxide, however, does obey 
the Henderson-Hasselbach equations, since its 
pKas are more than S units apart. 
a. Buffer Capacity Curves 
The buffer capacity terms of different acids in 
a mixture are additive and the buffer capacity 
100 
~ 80 
§ 60 ll. 
.£: 
.., c 40 Q) u 
ID 
~ 20 
I ,-
.; 
0 I 
I 
/ I 
/ 
..-' / 
/ \ / 
\/ 
h / \ / 
/ 
/ \ 
/ Juice and Wine Acidity 527 
of juices and wines can be estimated from the 
acid concentrations and the pH. Typical buffer 
capacity curves for a juice and a wine are 
shown in Figures IS-Sa and IS-Sb. The values 
below pH of 2.S are due to water alone and 
(the two peaks are due to higher buffer capac­
ity in the region of the 3.0 to 3.4 are due to 
the first ionization of tartaric and malic acids). 
The buffer capacity is highest in this range, 
falling off as the pH moves away in either 
direction. 
Based simply on the reported concentra­
tions of tartaric and malic acids, the buffer 
capacities of several juices have been esti­
mated and are presented in Table IS-I. These 
estimates do not include the contributions of 
the amino acids, bisulfate, or dihydrogen 
phosphate ions and have not been corrected 
for activity since ion strengths of the juices are 
unknown. The buffer capacities can be seen to 
vary due to the season, location, and cultivar. 
Of particular importance is the relatively uni­
form buffer capacity values of the Cabernet 
Sauvignon juices reported for one vineyard 
during several years in Bordeaux (Peynaud 
and Maurie 19S6), compared to the wide vari­
ation between cultivars at one location in 
Washington (Johnson and Nagel 1976) and 
the effects of the growing conditions on the 
/' 
/ ..-' --
I 
/ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
.... 
0 2 3 4 5 6 7 
pH 
-- H2Ta HTa- -- Ta= Fig. 15-3. The dissociation diagram 
for tartaric acid in wine. 528 Juice and Wine Acidity 
100 
~ 80 
E b 60 LL 
.!;; 
... i 40 
U 
~ 20 
0 
0 2 3 4 ,.~ / " / , / , / \/ 
..; 
/' 
/ \ / , 
/ ' 
/ \ / 
/ 
/ , 
5 6 , , /--
7 
Fig. 15-4. The dissociation diagram 
for malic acid in wine. -- H2Ma pH 
HMa- -- Me= 
variation within a cultivar (Steele and Kunkee 
1978, 1979). 
In practice, the determination of acid con­
centrations and the computation of the buffer 
capacity are usually not justified since its ana­
lytical determination is more easily performed. 
A juice or wine sample can simply be titrated 
in either direction for one-half or a full pH 
unit and the volume of titrant noted. This can 
75 
J: 60 a. .... 
~ S 45 
>-... 'u to a. a 30 
'-(I) .... .... 
~ 15 
0 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
pH 
Fig. 15-5a. The effect of pH on the buffer capacity in 
juice. be done directly to the sample without con­
cern about dissolved carbon dioxide interfer­
ence. 
The buffer capacity at typical juice or wine 
is unaffected by any acid or base whose pKa is 
more then 2 units above or below the pH 
value. This is true for dissolved carbon dioxide 
and the phosphate, sulfate, chloride, and ni­
trate ions. 
75 
J: 60 a. .... 
-.J 
~ S 45 
>-... 'u 
!! a 30 
~ .... .... 
~ 15 
0 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
pH 
Fig. 15-5b. The effect of pH on the buffer capacity in 
wine. Juice and Wine Acidity 529 
Table 15-1. Juice acidity measures of various cultivars and locations. 
Titratable Acidity Malic Tartaric Estimated buffer 
Year and cultivar pH g/L acid g/L acidg/L capacity mM/L/pH 
France, Medoc (Peynaud and Maurie 1956) 
1952 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.38 8.40 2.95 8.10 50.4 
1953 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.22 7.73 3.35 8.40 25.3 
1954 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.10 8.40 2.08 9.45 50.6 
1955 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.20 6.60 2.41 9.00 51.2 
1952 Merlot 3.52 5.55 2.08 7.13 41.8 
1953 Merlot 3.30 5.93 1.01 8.00 42.4 
1954 Merlot 3.15 8.10 1.21 10.6 53.3 
1955 Merlot 3.40 5.85 1.61 8.93 48.2 
Australia, Barossa and Renmark (Rankine et al. 1971) 
1959 Syrah 3.44 6.5 3.0 5.7 39.8 
1960 Syrah 3.43 6.7 2.7 6.5 43.0 
1961 Syrah 3.59 5.9 2.8 6.0 39.9 
1962 Syrah 3.58 6.1 2.3 6.5 39.8 
1959 Riesling 3.12 8.8 2.4 8.4 47.4 
1960 Riesling 3.12 8.7 2.1 8.8 48.1 
1961 Riesling 3.28 8.2 2.7 7.9 48.0 
1962 Riesling 3.21 8.2 1.7 9.0 48.5 
Germany, Wein (Wejnar 1971) 
1963 Miiller-Thurgau 3.22 8.0 2.80 7.52 46.2 
1964 Miiller-Thurgau 3.36 6.0 2.08 5.92 36.7 
1965 Miiller-Thurgau 3.48 7.2 3.91 4.79 39.9 
1966 Miiller-Thurgau 3.25 9.1 7.77 5.05 55.2 
1963 Riesling 2.94 9.8 3.80 8.39 47.6 
1964 Riesling 3.11 10.0 3.38 9.62 56.1 
1965 Riesling 2.88 14.2 9.07 6.76 53.0 
1966 Riesling 2.82 17.1 10.3 9.95 65.0 
South Mrica, Stellenbosch (Du Plessis 1968) 
1964 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.3 8.5 3.5 8.0 51.9 
1964 Pinotage 3.2 9.4 4.1 7.7 51.8 
1964 Pinot noir 3.1 12.0 6.3 9.0 36.2 
1964 Syrah 3.5 8.0 1.9 9.0 49.4 
1964 Zinfandel 3.5 8.2 2.0 9.2 50.8 
1964 St. Emilion 3.4 7.8 5.2 4.4 43.6 
United States, Washington (Johnson and Nagel 1976) 
1973 Foch 4.04 9.2 6.73 9.66 69.8 
1973 Limberger 3.44 8.3 4.20 9.06 60.2 
1973 Chardonnay 3.60 8.8 6.80 9.50 73.6 
1973 Miiller-Thurgau 3.58 7.8 2.90 6.53 42.7 
United States, California (Steele and Kunkee 1978, 1979) 
1976 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.47 6.4 2.8 6.8 43.8 
1976 Cabernet Sauvignon 3.85 4.3 1.9 6.6 37.2 
1976 Merlot 3.63 5.4 3.3 6.0 42.0 
1976 Merlot 3.82 4.3 2.4 6.2 37.7 
1976 Pinot noir 3.58 7.7 5.4 6.2 52.8 
1976 Pinot noir 4.02 6.4 5.1 6.3 48.6 
1976 Zinfandel 3.20 8.5 5.2 5.8 47.5 
1976 Zinfandel 3.46 6.4 3.9 6.7 48.3 530 Juice and Wine Acidity 
Table 15-1. (Continued) 
Titratable Acidity 
Year and cuItivar pH giL Malic 
acid giL Tartaric 
acid giL Estimated buffer 
capacity mMILlpH 
United States, California (Steele and Kunkee 1978, 1979) 
1976 Chardonnay 3.52 6.0 
1976 Chardonnay 3.96 5.4 
1976 Gewilrztraminer 4.04 6.1 
1976 Gewilrztraminer 4.28 6.0 
1976 Riesling 3.23 7.3 
1976 Riesling 3.77 4.8 
1976 Sauvignon blanc 3.63 6.0 
1976 Sauvignon blanc 3.77 5.4 
C. PREDICTING PH AND TITRATABLE 
ACIDITY VALUES 
1. Ionization Equations 
In order to quantify the behavior of acidity in 
juices and wines it is necessary to predict acid 
ionization and pH for these mixtures. The 
aqueous ionization constants for the major 
acids found in wine are presented in Table 
15-2. These are the values which have been 
used in the acidity and ionization calculations 
throughout this book. 
2. Estimated pKas in Juice and Wine 
The presence of significant sugar and ethanol 
concentrations in juices and wines lead to 
changes in the effective dissociation constants 
of the organic acids. These changes are due to 
changes in the dielectric properties of the 
solvent and its effect on the strength of bonds 
within the carboxylate groups. The influence 
of the solvent properties on the dissociation of 
the inorganic acids is less apparent and gener­
ally such changes in the constants are not 
attempted. 
There are two approaches to determining 
these effects on dissociation constants. The 
first is the experimental determination of the 
effects of ethanol concentration of the pKas as 
has been done for the major organic acids 
(Usseglio-Tomasset and Bosia 1978), and the 
other is the application of general relation­
ships that have been developed for predicting 4.1 
3.1 
4.1 
3.9 
2.6 
2.5 
3.2 
2.6 7.0 
6.5 
7.3 
7.0 
8.1 
7.0 
6.0 
6.0 50.5 
41.5 48.8 
46.1 
48.2 
41.9 
41.5 
38.0 
Table 15-2. The aqueous dissociation constants for 
some wine constituents. 
Acid pKal pKa2 pKa3 
Tartaric 2.981,3.074 4.341,4.39 4 
Malic 3.484 5.104 
Lactic 3.863,3.894 
Succinic 4.19 3,4.21 4 5.57 3,5.64 4 
Sulfurous 1.82 7.2 2,7.75 
Citric 3.063 4.74 3 5.403 
Oxalic 1.193 4.213 
Glutaric 2.476 4.686 
Galacturonic 3.504 
Gluconic 3.814 
Glucuronic 3.264 
Pyruvic 2.94 2,2.714 
Ascorbic 4.1 3 11. 793 
Arginine 2.173 9.043 
Proline 1.993 10.60 3 
Aspartic 2.093 3.863 9.823 
Glutamic 2.193 4.253 9.673 
Ammonia 9.22 
Carbonic 6.42 10.32 
Acetic 4.82,4.784 
Sorbic 4.76'1 
Phosphoric 2.12 7.22 12.42 
Sulfuric -9.0 7 2.02 
Nitric -1.4 2 
Gallic 4.41 3 
Cinnamic 4.441 
Hydrogen 7.0 2 12.92 
Sulfide 
1 Weast (1977).2 Aylward and Findlay (1966).3 Segal (1976).4 
Usseglio-Tomasset and Bosia (1978). 5 King et al. (l98!). 6 
Dawson et al. (I969). 7 Stranks et al. (1965). Table 15-3. The acid dissociation constants in ethanol 
solutions. (Data of Usseglio-Tomasset and 
Bosia 1978). 
12% ethanol 14% ethanol 
Acid pKaJ pKa2 pKaJ pKa2 
Tartaric 3.23 4.59 3.27 4.63 
Malic 3.64 5.32 3.67 5.36 
Citric 3.32 4.91 3.35 4.95 
Succinic 4.38 5.84 4.41 5.90 
Lactic 4.06 4.09 
Acetic 4.89 4.91 
Pyruvic 2.82 2.86 
Gluconic 3.99 4.03 
Galacturonic 3.68 3.71 
Glucuronic 3.44 3.48 
the effect of solvent properties on the dissocia­
tion constants (Sen et al. 1979). 
Usseglio-Tomasset and Bosia (1978) deter­
mined the dissociation constants for tartaric, 
malic, citric, succinic and lactic, acetic, pyru­
vic, galacturonic, gluconic, and glucuronic 
acids in solutions up to 20% ethanol. Their 
values for these acids are summarized for 12% 
and 14% ethanol in Table 15-3. The effect of 
ethanol in wine is to make the effective pKa s 
0.15 to 0.2 units higher than their aqueous 
values and this leads to less dissociation of the 
acids than that observed in water solutions. 
The similar effect of ethanol on the pKal of 
sulfur dioxide has also been shown (Usseglio­
Tomasset and Bosia 1984). 
The effects of ethanol on the dielectric 
properties of the solution (and acid dissocia­
tion) are similar to those caused by the pres­
ence of the sugars, glucose and fructose. There 
do not appear to be any corresponding calcu­
lations for juice conditions and so the follow­
ing approach is useful for both juice and wine 
conditions. Juice and Wine Acidity 531 
the form: 
(15.4) 
where pK! is the dissociation constant in the 
solvent mixture and 81 and 82 are functions 
of the dielectric properties of the solvents in­
volved. The constant b can be thought of as 
the sensitivity of the acid ionization to the 
dielectric constant of the solution. 
The 81 term is given by: 
where 8water and 80rganic are the dielectric 
constants for water and the organic compo­
nent; and 8* is that of the mixture. The 82 
term is related to the constants for water and 
the organic component: 
(15.4b) 
where the definitions are the same as those in 
Equation (15.4a). 
Based on the results for malonic, formic, 
acetic, lactic, and succinic acids, whose pKas 
range from 2.75 to 4.76 (Sen et al. 1979), a 
correlation for the constant b in terms of the 
acid pKa s has been determined for organic 
acids to be: 
b = 268.9 + 55.2 pKa' (15.4c) 
and this is shown in Figure 15-6. 
The use of this set of equations (15.4), al­
lows the pKa values of similar organic acids, 
such as tartaric and malic acids, to be esti­
mated in sugar and ethanol solutions. The 
effect of the change in dielectric properties on 
the dissociation of the inorganic acids, such as 
sulfurous, is assumed to be similar. 
3. The Influence of Solvent on pKa Values 4. Sugar and Ethanol Solutions 
The relationship between the dissociation con­
stants and the dielectric constant of an aque­
ous organic solvent for a number of organic 
acids has been shown (Sen et al. 1979) to be of The dielectric constant for sugar and ethanol 
solutions can be found in the International 
Critical Tables or other handbooks and these 
have been correlated to be for glucose at 532 Juice and Wine Acidity 
550 
520 
.0 
.... c 490 ItI .... 
(/) 
(5 
U 
~ 460 
r-
430 
400~----~------~----~------~----~----~ 
Fig. 15~. The relationship be­
tween pKa and the constant b 
(Equation (l5.4c)). 
e* = 78.5 -0.270 [G], 2.50 
(I5.5a) 
where [G] is the weight percent of glucose, 
and for ethanol at 25°C: 
e* = 78.5 -0.587 [E], (I5.5b) 
where [E] is the weight percent of ethanol. 
The effect of fructose is very similar to that 
of glucose and these relationships have been 
incorporated into the calculation procedures 
for estimating the pH and buffer capacity of 
juices and wines. 
5. Activity Coefficients 
The calculation of most solution equilibria 
involve the use of activity coefficients to cor­
rect for nonideal behavior of the ions. The 
departure from ideal behavior is more pro­
nounced for ions with a double charge than 
those with a single charge. This becomes espe­
cially important in the estimation of the sec­
ond dissociation forms of tartaric and malic 
acids. The main factor in these corrections is 
the effect of all of the other ions in solution, 
and this is generally referred to as the ionic 
strength or salt strength. 
a. The Oebye-Huckle Equations 2.92 3.33 3.75 4.17 4.58 5.00 
pKa of Organic Acid 
ions was developed by Debye and Huckle 
(Butler 1964), and their first suggestion has 
become known as the Limiting Law. The activ­
ity coefficient y, is given by the following 
relationship: 
(I5.6) 
where I is the ionic strength of the solution; 
Iz+z-I is the modulus of the ion charge prod­
uct; and the constant A has a value of 0.509 
for water solutions at 25°C. 
The value of the ionic strength is calculated 
as one-half of the sum of the weighted contri­
butions of all of the ions in solution: 
(15.7) 
where Ci is the molar concentration of the 
ion; and Zi is the charge of the ion. 
This early form was soon found to be inade­
quate in describing the actual ion behavior at 
even moderate ionic strengths, and the Ex­
tended Law (Butler 1964) was proposed in­
stead: 
/(1) 
log(y) = -0.509Iz+z-1 ( )' (15.8) 1 + Ba/ I 
where the constant "B" has the value 0.328 in 
One of the earliest means of estimating the water at 25°C, and the constant a was related 
activity coefficients in the presence of other to the size of the ion. Values of a have been tabulated for many ions (Butler 1964) and 
range from 3 for ions such as potassium to 4 
for bisulfite and acetate to 5 for carbonate and 
6 for calcium. 
The values of a are not available for many 
of the anions such as bitartrate and bimalate 
that are of interest in wines and it is not easy 
to predict them from our present knowledge, 
making the use of Equation (15.8) of limited 
value even though it provides better estimates 
in many solutions. 
The concentration product calculations of 
Berg and Keefer (1958, 1959) used the Ex­
tended Law with a value of unity for the prod­
uct B times a. Others have used the original 
limiting law form in more recent solubility 
calculations (Curvelo-Garcia 1987). Neither of 
these equations provides a very good estimate 
of the activity coefficients in salt solutions at 
the 50-to 100-mM level typical of juices and 
wines. 
b. The Davies Equation 
A more general approach that has been 
adopted is the equation developed by Davies 
(Butler 1964). It assumed the product B times 
a in the extended law to be unity and, based 
on several salts, introduced an empirical load­
ing for the ionic strength in a correction term: 
log(y) = -0.509Iz+z-1 
[ ';(1) 1 X (1 + ';(1) -0.20 I (15.8) 
This equation is perhaps the most suitable 
for calculations of the acidity, chemical reac­
tion, and solubility relationships involving ionic 
species in juices and wines and it is recom­
mended for such. It has been used in the 
calculation of buffer capacity and pH changes 
presented in this chapter. 
6. Ionic Strength 
The estimation of activity coefficients will re­
quire an estimate of the ionic strength of a 
juice or wine. This is obtained by determining 
the concentrations of all of the ionic species in Juice and Wine Acidity 533 
solution or using ranges such as those re­
ported by Ough and Amerine (1988). The 
most widely used value of the ionic strength of 
wines is the 38-mM value used by Berg and 
Keefer (1958, 1959) in their tartrate stability 
studies. Recent estimates (Abgueguen and 
Boulton 1993), based on more species, suggest 
that the value is in the range of 75 to 85 mM. 
7. Influence of Activity on The pKa Values 
The dissociation constants published in most 
handbooks are not corrected for the effects of 
ion strength on the activity coefficients, and 
many texts that describe acidity calculations 
do not take them into account. The simplest 
form of this correction is: 
(y)[base] 
pKa* = pKa - log ( ) [ . ]' (15.9) y aCId 
where pKa is the value in the absence of ion 
strength effects; and pK! is the value in their 
presence. This form is based on the unit activ­
ity for the hydrogen ions. If the activity coef­
ficients are estimated from the Davies equa­
tion, described previously, the correction 
equation becomes: 
pK! = pKa 
-n( 0.509 [ (1 :(~~I) -0.20 I]), 
(15.10) 
where n is a constant related to the ionization 
involved. The coefficient n is equal to twice 
the charge on the dissociating species minus 
one: 
n = (2z d -1), (I5.lOa) 
where Z d is 0 for the undissociated acid (n = 
-1), -1 for the first acid anion (n = - 3), 
and - 2 for the second acid anion (n = - 5) 
(Daniels and Alberty 1975). 
The ion strength effect on ionization is 
especially pronounced for the second pKa of 
the acids, and this leads to much higher pH 534 Juice and Wine Acidity 
values for the maximum bitartrate ion concen­
tration, often referred to as 3.6 or 3.7 based 
on aqueous pKa s, but more like 4.1 when salt 
strength and ethanol effects are taken into 
account. 
The pKa values corrected for the effects of 
ethanol (Equation (15.4» and ion strength us­
ing the Davies equation (Equation (15.8» have 
been used in the calculations presented and 
are recommended. 
D. ESTIMATING CHANGES IN PH 
AND TITRATABLE ACIDITY 
1. Deacidification 
One reason for wanting to be able to predict 
the pH and buffer capacity of juices and wines 
is to be able to estimate the effects of various 
changes in the acidity (see Chapter 3). These 
include the effect of malolactic fermentation 
in high-malate juices and the effect of exten­
sive precipitation of potassium bitartrate in 
high-potassium wines. It also applies to the 
changes that might be expected during acidi­
fication and deacidification treatments. 
a. Carbonate Deacidification 
In the deacidification of juices with calcium 
carbonate in the double-salt procedure, there 
are two major reactions that will affect the 
final acidity. The first is the extensive neutral­
ization of the acid mixture in the volume 
being treated. The second is the precipitation 
of calcium tartrate and, to a lesser degree, 
calcium malate. The first causes predictable 
changes in the titratable acidity and pH of the 
treated juice; however, the second has contri­
butions that will depend on the extent of the 
salt precipitations. 
The calcium salt precipitations do not lead 
to loss of titratable acidity since there are no 
titratable hydrogen ions in them. They do 
have an impact by limiting the rise in pH 
during the treatment due to the additional 
dissociation of their bitartrate and bimalate forms that follow the precipitation. This re­
duction in the concentrations of the tartrate 
and malate also decreases the buffer capacity 
of the juice following treatment. This can be 
on the order of 20 to 30% and is significant in 
determining the pH after treatment. The ex­
tent of precipitation is influenced by the initial 
concentrations of tartrate and malate, the level 
of seed crystals, the degree of agitation, the 
proportions of juice and carbonate, and the 
treatment temperature. It is the uncertainty in 
the precipitation that limits the accuracy of 
the estimation the acidity changes under these 
conditions. 
b. Malolactic Deacidification 
Malolactic fermentation (see Chapter 6) is an 
example in which the changes in titratable 
acidity and pH are predictable. The conver­
sion of malic to lactic acid causes one titrat­
able hydrogen to be lost and the exchange of 
a weaker acid for a stronger one in the buffer. 
The changes in the buffer capacity are of 
secondary importance to the loss of titratable 
acidity. Each gram per liter of malic acid con­
verted into lactic acid will give rise to a loss of 
7.46 mM/L of titratable hydrogens (or 1.12 
g/L as tartaric). The expected changes in the 
pH are presented in Table 15-4 for different 
initial levels of malic acid and wine buffer 
capacity. The variation in the buffer capacity 
with pH is shown in Figure 15-5b for a typical 
WIne. 
2. Acidification 
The acidification of juices or wines with tar­
taric acid can have variable results depending 
Table 15-4. Predicted effect of the malolactic 
fermentation on the increase of wine pH. 
Buffer Capacity Initial malic acid concentration 
(mM/L) 1 giL 2 giL 3 giL 
35 
50 
65 0.21 
0.15 
0.11 0.42 0.30 
0.22 0.64 0.45 
0.34 on the initial pH. The addition in itself will 
lead to a predictable increase in titratable 
acidity, but the change in pH will depend on 
both the pH and the buffer capacity of the 
juice or wine. This is because the pH deter­
mines the extent of ionization of the added 
acid and it is only the ionized hydrogen ions 
that contribute to the pH decrease. The buffer 
capacity will determine the effect that these 
released ions have on the pH. 
Each tartrate ion formed will yield two pro­
tons, while only one will come from each 
bitartrate ion. For a wine at a pH of 4.0, the 
added acid will ionize to give a proton yield of 
46%, while at a pH of 3.5 it is 32% and at 
pH = 3.0 it is 16%. The proton yield and pH 
shift caused by an addition of 1 giL of tartaric 
acid to a typical juice are shown over this pH 
range in Table 15-5. The corresponding values 
for the addition to a typical wine are given in 
Table 15-6. 
If the addition results in the precipitation 
of potassium bitartrate then there are addi­
tional effects that can cause the pH to either 
rise or fall depending on the pH conditions. 
This will be discussed further in the following 
section. Juice and Wine Acidity 535 
3. Precipitation of Tartaric Acid Salts 
The precipitation of potassium and calcium 
salts of tartaric acid provide quite different 
effects on the pH of the resulting wine. The 
extent of the precipitation is often difficult to 
predict, but it can best be determined at the 
laboratory scale as part of the stability tests 
discussed in Chapter 8. The precipitation of 
potassium bitartrate will result in the loss of 
1 giL of titratable acidity for each 2.51 giL of 
the salt formed, while that of calcium tartrate 
will have no loss at all. 
When these salts precipitate, there will be a 
rearrangement of the acid equilibria that can 
cause some of the undissociated acid to ionize 
and for some of the dianion to recombine 
with available protons. It is the net effect of 
these two reactions that will determine whether 
additional protons are released into the buffer 
or some are consumed from it, thereby lower­
ing or raising the pH, respectively. For tartaric 
acid, the point at which these opposing reac­
tions nullifY each other is the pH of the maxi­
mum bitartrate concentration. For a water so­
lution containing only tartaric acid, this would 
be at approximately 3.6 based on the pub-
Table 15-5. The buffer capacity, proton yield, and pH changes for the addition of tartaric acid and the pH 
changes for the precipitation of the potassium and calcium salts in a typical juice". 
Buffer ~ pH ~pH ~ pH 
capacity Proton yield 1 g/LKHTa 1.25 g/L KHTa 1.25 g/L CaTa 
pH (mM/L/pH) (%) added precipitated precipitated 
2.7 25.2 10.05 -0.05 -0.21 -0.48 
2.8 27.4 12.06 -0.06 -0.18 -0.43 
2.9 29.8 14.35 -0.06 -0.16 -0.38 
3.0 32.2 16.90 -0.07 -0.14 -0.34 
3.1 34.4 19.69 -0.08 -0.12 -0.31 
3.2 36.3 22.66 -0.08 -0.10 -0.28 
3.3 37.7 25.78 -0.09 -0.09 -0.26 
3.4 38.5 28.98 -0.10 -0.07 -0.25 
3.5 38.7 32.19 -0.11 -0.06 -0.23 
3.6 38.4 35.36 -0.12 -0.05 -0.22 
3.7 37.6 38.46 -0.14 -0.04 -0.22 
3.8 36.7 41.48 -0.15 -0.03 -0.21 
3.9 35.7 44.40 -0.17 -0.02 -0.21 
4.0 34.8 47.26 -0.18 -O.oI -0.20 
"Juice contains 6 giL tartaric acid, 3 giL malic acid, and is 20 Brix. 536 Juice and Wine Acidity 
Table 15-6. The buffer capacity, proton yield, and pH changes for the addition of tartaric acid and the pH 
changes for the precipitation of the potassium and calcium salts in a typical wine". 
Buffer dpH dpH dpH 
capacity Proton yield 1 g/LKHTa 1.25 g/L KHTa 1.25 g/L CaTa 
pH (mM/L/pH) (%) added precipitated precipitated 
2.7 22.9 9.22 -0.05 -0.24 -0.53 
2.8 24.8 11.11 -0.06 -0.21 -0.48 
2.9 27.1 13.28 -0.07 -0.18 -0.43 
3.0 29.4 15.71 -0.07 -0.16 -0.38 
3.1 31.7 18.39 -0.08 -0.13 -0.34 
3.2 33.8 21.29 -0.08 -0.11 -0.31 
3.3 35.5 24.34 -0.09 -0.10 -0.28 
3.4 36.8 27.51 -0.10 -0.08 -0.26 
3.5 37.7 30.71 -0.11 -0.07 -0.24 
3.6 38.2 33.90 -0.12 -0.06 -0.23 
3.7 38.5 37.02 -0.13 -0.04 -0.22 
3.8 38.5 40.07 -0.14 -0.03 -0.21 
3.9 38.5 43.01 -0.15 -0.02 -0.20 
4.0 38.5 45.88 -0.16 -0.01 -0.19 
"The model wine contains 6 giL of tartaric acid, 2 giL of lactic acid, 1 giL of succinic acid, and 12% ethanol by volume. 
lished aqueous pKa values, but in the presence 
of ethanol and ion content of wine it is more 
like 4.1. At pH values below this, the precipita­
tion of potassium bitartrate results in a net 
release in protons and a reduction in pH 
while at pH values above it there will be a net 
consumption of protons and the pH will rise. 
In actual wines these changes will be lessened 
by the presence of other buffer components 
(primarily malic or lactic acid), but the general 
trend is followed. 
a. Potassium Bitartrate 
The precipitation of potassium bitartrate from 
wine usually occurs to some degree during 
fermentation and aging periods. It can be 
used to further lower the pH of a juice or wine 
after an addition of tartaric acid by the induc­
tion of the crystallization at lower tempera­
tures. This will usually occur naturally in wines 
that are held at lower temperatures but will 
require the addition of seed crystals and some 
agitation to encourage the crystallization in 
some wines (see Chapter 8). 
The change in pH caused by the precipita­
tion of 1.25 giL of potassium bitartrate in 
these conditions is also given in Tables 15-5 
for a typical juice and 15-6 for a typical wine. This precipitation is equivalent to a loss in 
titratable acidity of 0.5 giL. Note that while 
significant reductions in pH occur at low pH, 
these diminish with increasing pH until at pH 
4.0, where the pH reduction due to the pre­
cipitation is practically zero. 
b. Calcium Tartrate 
The precipitation of calcium tartrate is rare at 
wine conditions but it is significant during the 
deacidification with calcium carbonate (see 
Chapter 3) or when a neutral salt of calcium, 
such as calcium sulfate, is added directly to 
wine, as is sometimes practiced. 
The advantage of this form of precipitation 
is that there is no loss of titratable acidity and 
the dissociation caused is maximal, giving a 
larger pH shift per mole of tartrate precipi­
tated than with the potassium salt. The change 
in pH associated with the precipitation of 1.25 
giL of calcium tartrate is shown for a typical 
juice and wine in Tables 15-5 and 15-6, respec­
tively. The effect of the calcium salt precipita­
tion is almost twice that of the potassium salt 
at low pH, but it is far more effective in the 
range 3.5 to 4.0. 
The disadvantages of such a treatment are a 
wine that will be saturated with the calcium salt after the treatment and the possible sen­
sory effects of elevated sulfate levels. Potassium 
sulfate is known to be salty tasting. Recent 
advances in the understanding of nucleation 
in the calcium tartrate crystallization 
(Abgueguen and Boulton 1993) provide a 
practical means of quantifying and enhancing 
the treatment for this instability. There appear 
to be no reports of the sensory effects of the 
treatment in table wines. 
The effect of removing the tartrate anion 
can be seen to have a dramatic effect on the 
pH of the wine without altering the titratable 
acidity. It is this effect which also occurs dur­
ing the use of anion (combined with cation 
exchange) for the adjustment of pH. The re­
moval of tartrate ions during such an ex­
change parallels that of the calcium precipita­
tion without making the corresponding wine 
saturated with respect to this salt. 
E. REFERENCES 
ABGUEGUEN, 0., AND R. B. BOULTON. 1993. "The 
crystallization kinetics of calcium tartrate from 
model solutions and wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 
44:65-75. 
AYLWARD, G. H., AND T.]. V. FINDLAY. 1966. Chemical 
Data Book. 2nd ed., Sydney, Australia: John Wiley 
& Sons. 
BERG, H. W., AND R. M. KEEFER. 1958. "Analytical 
determination of tartrate stability in wine: 1. 
Potassium bitartrate." Am.]. Enol. 9:180-193. 
BERG, H. W., AND R. M. KEEFER. 1959. "Analytical 
determination of tartrate stability in wine: 2. 
Calcium tartrate." Am.]. Enol. 10:105-109. 
BOULTON, R. 1980a. "The general relationship be­
tween potassium, sodium and pH in grape juices 
and wines." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 31 :182-186. 
BOULTON, R. 1980b. "A hypothesis for the pres­
ence, activity and role of potassium/hydrogen, 
adenosine triphosphatases in grapevines." Am.]. 
Enol. Vitic. 31:283-287. 
BOULTON, R. 1980c. "The relationships between 
total acidity, titratable acidity and pH in grape 
tissue." Vitis 19:113-120. Juice and Wine Acidity 537 
BOULTON, R. 1980d. "The relationships between 
total acidity, titratable acidity and pH in wine." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 31:76-80. 
BUTLER,]. N. 1964. Ionic Equilibrium. Reading, MA: 
Addison-Wesley. 
CURVELo-GARCIA A. S. 1987. "0 producto de solu­
bilidade do tartarato de calcio em meios hidroal­
coolicos em funcao dos seus factores determi­
nantes." Ciena Tec. Vitic. 6:19-28. 
DANIELS, F., AND R. A. ALBERTY. 1975. Physical Chem­
istry, 4th ed. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
DAWSON, R. M. C., D. C ELLIOTT, W. H. ELLIOTT, 
AND K M. JONES. 1969. Data for Biochemical Re­
search. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press. 
Du PLESSIS, C. S. 1968. "Changes in major organic 
acids of ripening grapes." S. Afric.]. Agric. Sci. 
11 :237-248. 
EDWARDS, T. L., V. L. SINGLETON, AND R. B. BOUL­
TON. 1985. "Formation of ethyl esters of tartaric 
acid during wine aging: Chemical and sensory 
effects." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 36:118-124. 
JOHNSON, T. L., AND C. W. NAGEL. 1976. "Composi­
tion of central Washington grapes during matu­
ration." Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 27:15-20. 
KiNG, JR., A. D.,]. D. PONTING, D. W. SANSHUCK, R. 
JACKSON, AND K MIHARA. 1981. "Factors affect­
ing death of yeast by sulfur dioxide." ]. Food 
Protect. 44:92-97. 
LEONARD, R. T., AND T. K HODGES. 1973. "Char­
acterization of plasma membrane-associated 
adenosine triphosphatase activity in oat roots." 
Plant Physiol. 52:6-12. 
OUGH C. S., AND M. A. AMERINE. 1988. Methods for 
Analysis of Musts and Wines, 2nd ed. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons. 
PEYNAUD, E., AND A. MAURIE. 1956. "Nouvelles 
recherches sur la maturation du raisin dans Ie 
Bordelais, annees 1952, 1953 et 1954." Ann. 
Technol. Agric. 5:111-139. 
RANKINE, B. C.,]. C. M. FORNACHON, E. W. BOEHM, 
AND K M. CELLIER. 1971. "The influence of 
grape variety, climate and soil on grape compo­
sition and the composition and quality of table 
wines." Vitis 10:33-50. 
SAITO, K AND Z. KAsAl. 1978. "Conversion of la­
belled substrates to sugars, cellwall polysaccha­
rides, and tartaric acid in grape berries." Plant 
Physiol. 62:215-219. 538 Juice and Wine Acidity 
SEGAL, I. 1976. Biochemical Calculations. 2nd ed., 
New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
SEN B., R. N. Roy, j. J. GIBBONS, D. A. JOHNSON, AND 
L. H. ADCOCK. 1979. "Computational techniques 
of ionic processes in water-organic mixed sol­
vents." In Thermodynamic Behaviur of Electrolytes in 
Mixed Solvents, W. F. Furter, Ed., pp. 215-248. 
Adv. Chem. Ser. 177, Washington, DC: American 
Chemical Society. 
STEELE,j. T., AND R. E. KUNKEE. 1978. "Deacidifica­
tion of musts from the western United States by 
the calcium double-salt precipitation process." 
Am.]. Enol. Vitic. 29:153-160. 
STEELE,J. T., AND R. E. KUNKEE. 1979. "Deacidifica­
tion of high acid California wines by calcium 
double-salt precipitation." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
30:227-231. STRANKS, D. R., M. L. HEFFERNAN, K. C. LEE Dow, 
P. T. McTIGUE, AND G. R. A. WITHERS. 1965. 
Chemistry-A Structural View. London: Melbourne 
University Press. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L., AND P. D. BOSIA. 1978. "De­
terminazione delle constanti di dissociazione dei 
principali acidi del vino in soluzioni idroalcol­
iche di interesse enologico." Rivista Vitic. Enol. 
31:380-403. 
USSEGLIo-ToMASSET, L., AND P. D. BOSIA. 1984. "La 
Prima costante di dissociazione dell'acido sol­
foroso." Vini d '[talia 26(5):7-14. 
WEAST, R. C. 1977. CRC Handbook of Chemistry and 
Physics, 58th ed. Cleveland, OH: CRC Press. 
WE]NAR, R. 1971. "Etude l'influence de l'acide tar­
trique et l'acide malique sur Ie pH du vin." 
Conn. Vigne Yin 5:535-562. CHAPTER 16 
PREPARATION, ANALYSIS, AND 
EVALUATION OF EXPERIMENTAL WINES 
There are many instances when a wine maker 
wishes to modifY or consider modification of 
the usual winemaking practices. In fact, from 
vintage to vintage every wine is made some­
what differently depending upon circum­
stances. If the wines have been highly satisfac­
tory, replicating previous practices as closely as 
possible may be the objective. If small im­
provements are sought in the commercial-sized 
lots, small incremental changes intended to 
correct the deficiencies may be made in the 
practices employed. In this chapter, we are 
thinking primarily of proposed changes of 
larger magnitude that may make notable and 
possibly detrimental changes in the wines pro­
duced. How should the wine maker proceed? 
How should the new wines be evaluated? How 
is the decision made to capitalize on the re­
sults of the experimentation? 
These are not trivial or uncommon ques­
tions. Almost all wineries make some experi­
mental wines every year; large wineries may 
have a special staff doing nothing else. Waste­
ful and misleading results can be very costly 
and it is important to make and evaluate such wines so as to avoid as many pitfalls as possible. 
Furthermore, appreciation of proper controls, 
replication, analysis, and statistical treatment 
during experimental winemaking is essential 
to making use of research results published by 
other experimenters. Five concepts are impor­
tant in beginning such experimentation. The 
objective must be well understood and usually 
limited to changing one operation or parame­
ter at a time. Adequate controls and replicates 
must be used. Complete and detailed records 
must be kept. The results must be carefully 
evaluated to place conclusions on a sound 
basis. Care must be taken that the findings are 
meaningful when adapted to commercial op­
erations. 
A sixth concept is useful if new products or 
drastic changes are contemplated. Bold modi­
fications that include some that are likely to be 
excessive are informative, particularly in early 
experimentation. For example, if time is the 
factor being investigated and only four experi­
mental conditions can be considered, a geo­
metrical progression of one, two, four, and 
eight days is likely to be more informative than 
539 540 Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 
a linear one of one, two, three, and four days. 
Until you are sure that eight days is excessive 
for some reason, even larger factors may be 
better, e.g., one, three, nine, 27 days. The 
larger the steps in the experimental parame­
ter, the more likely it is that follow-up experi­
ments will be needed to home in on the 
optimum condition, but two or more sets of 
experiments will be more efficient and more 
certainly correct than creeping up on the tar­
get in small steps. An applicable tenet of visu­
ally adjusting artillery fire is to get an "over" 
and a "short" and then, and only then, try to 
hit the target by progressively splitting each 
following interval. 
A. SIZE OF EXPERIMENTAL LOTS, 
CONTAINERS 
If commercial-sized lots are used, experimen­
tal wines that turn out poorer than acceptable 
represent a serious loss. For this reason, and 
also because wineries seldom have many simi­
lar tanks available, experimental treatments 
and replications will be limited if experimental 
volumes are large. Furthermore, with large 
tanks it is more difficult to keep them all the 
same with identical conditions and identical 
starting musts or wines in all of them. 
Smaller containers can more easily be repli­
cated, handled identically, and filled with the 
same must or wine. However, special care is 
often necessary to produce experimental 
findings with them that are directly applicable 
in large-scale commercial practice. For exam­
ple, a small leak of air into a large experiment 
may have little effect, but the same leak with a 
small container may be catastrophic. Sedimen­
tation is faster and stratification less severe in 
smaller containers. Extraneous temperature 
variation and its control may or may not be 
greater problems with larger containers. 
The material of the containers affects ex­
perimental conditions and practicality. Glass is 
impractical for large containers. It has the 
advantage that the experiment can be ob­
served, but if light is a factor, the results can be different from those found in stainless steel. 
Wooden containers themselves inherently dif­
fer so that extra replication to evaluate this 
effect is often necessary if they are used. Plas­
tic containers for small experiments can have 
special problems such as leaching of compo­
nents of the plastic or transmission of oxygen. 
For example, polyethylene generally lacks 
plasticizers and flavorful leachables, but is 
rather permeable to oxygen. Recycled 
polyethylene, often found in garbage recepta­
cles, will have unknown materials present and 
is not suitable for food containers. The time 
involved in the experiments is a factor. Virgin 
polyethylene is generally suitable for brief fer­
mentation experiments, but not for storage. 
The minimum size of an experimental lot, 
assuming that such factors as oxygen access 
are controlled, is determined by the amount 
of wine needed to perform the desired pro­
cessing and to end up with the necessary final 
volume for analysis, sensory panel evaluation, 
and other planned tests. Even if laboratory­
sized filters, etc., are available, we do not rec­
ommend less than about lO-L batches for most 
experimental musts or wines. 
The containers must be fitted with suitable 
fermentation bungs or other means to allow 
carbon dioxide to escape (unless sparkling 
wines are being tested), but to prevent entry of 
air. If containers are small and temperature 
differences minor, control of the ambient air 
temperature around the group of experimen­
tal samples may be adequate. If heat transfer 
rates are too small, better control may be 
needed, such as by immersing the containers 
in a controlled temperature water bath. Any 
other condition, such as humidity or light must 
be identical for all samples and preferably 
controlled unless you are certain it has no 
influence on the parameters of the test. This 
does not mean an educated guess that it has 
no effect, it means knowing or proving it does 
not. The container affects such conditions and 
may obviate certain effects. For example, 
opaque, impervious containers should elimi­
nate any role for external humidity or light. Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 541 
Creative solutions to problems in experi­
mental winemaking can be helpful, but may 
introduce other considerations and need to be 
included in the descriptions of the procedures 
employed. For example, a case came to our 
attention of white table wine experimentation 
by a group that lacked a crusher-de stemmer. 
They made the wines by fermentation in plas­
tic bags arranged to allow carbon dioxide to 
escape when pressure exceeded that necessary 
to pass a rubber band constriction around the 
neck. The grape clusters were trodden in the 
closed bag instead of a crusher. The products 
were compared as white table wines without 
further description, but differed in at least two 
important ways from standard commercial 
practice. The crushed grapes were fermented 
not only in the presence of berry solids, but 
also with stems. Since air was largely excluded 
when the grapes and inocula were placed in 
the bags, the resultant must was essentially 
unexposed to air. Either of these facts might 
have been useful subjects for experimentation, 
but made the direct comparison of results with 
any other research or commercial sample very 
uncertain. 
B. REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLES 
There are two related problems here: an ana­
lytical sample must represent all of the partic­
ular experimental batch of grapes, must, or 
wine; an experimental lot must be essentially 
identical with the other lots being compared 
in all respects except that being tested. While 
always important, these objectives are some­
times easily achieved and sometimes not. If the 
samples and sublots are taken from a master 
lot of clear and well-mixed wine or white juice 
must, the problem solves itself as long as ap­
preciable differences of aeration or such are 
not introduced by the transfer. With inhomo­
geneous materials such as whole musts, grapes, 
etc., the problem is much more important. 
Representative sampling of grapes in the vine­
yard to decide when to pick them has already been discussed (Chapter 2) and it would be 
useful to review that section. 
Suppose the experimental objective is to 
convert a large lot of grapes into a commercial 
batch and several smaller experimental batches 
of wine. Suppose further that it is necessary to 
obtain one or more analytical samples of the 
grapes for baseline analyses. Assume that the 
load or loads of grapes for the large commer­
cial lot are received at the winery and are to 
be crushed, destemmed, and processed as a 
unit. This large lot will become homogenous 
and representative of the average composition 
of the grapes as it is processed, but how can 
one ensure the smaller lots are also? One way 
is to crush and destem the whole mass, mix it 
well, and then subsample it. Even then it may, 
depending upon the experiment, be necessary 
to take a separate representative sample of the 
grapes and determine such parameters as per­
centage of the weight due to stems, average 
berry weight, and weight and volume of must 
obtained from a given weight of berries or 
clusters. In order to get a truly representative 
sample of grapes at the winery, it is necessary 
to sample throughout the load, since different 
portions of any load will come from different 
vines in different parts of the vineyard and 
even different vineyards may be involved. This 
is particularly necessary if chemical composi­
tional data from the grapes are needed, and is 
more important the greater the natural varia­
tion in the particular components of interest. 
One approach we have found generally 
quite successful has been to select one cluster 
per 20 (or some other sizable proportion) 
throughout the load(s) in question. A similar 
approach could select 1 kg from each 20 kg of 
grapes, one second per 20 seconds of auger 
flow, etc. If the resultant first sample is un­
manageably large, it can be reduced by ran­
domly selecting subunits such as 10 berries per 
cluster, alternate top, middle, or bottom thirds 
from each cluster, etc. If a fruit sample per se 
is not required by the nature of the experi­
ment, whole musts are seldom satisfactory for 
experimentation unless special efforts are em­
ployed to ensure randomized uniformity. It is 542 Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 
generally satisfactory to collect all the crushed 
must in one container and, while mixing it, 
subsample for the experimental batches by, 
for example, dipping sequentially a small por­
tion into each of the separate lots. 
To illustrate, 1 Tm of grapes is to be con­
verted to five 20-L experimental lots and a 
remainder larger lot for red table wine. To be 
certain of 20 L of wine allow a bit more must 
volume. We have usually estimated 2 kg grapes 
per liter of final experimental wine. Thus, 
2 X 5 X 20 = 200 kg of grapes will go to the 
experiment and 800 kg to the large lot. From 
the crushed, mixed (presumably S02-added) 
whole must, the most certain procedure would 
be to dip sequentially 1 L (i.e., 1/20 of the 
final volume) into each of the five experimen­
tal lots followed by four dips into another tank 
for the remainder lot. Continue until the orig­
inal receiving tank is empty. It is important 
that the source container be kept stirred 
enough to remain homogenous during the 
dipping. It is also important that the five ex­
perimentallots receive exactly the same num­
ber and volume of dips. 
Any and all treatments of the lots which are 
not part of the experimental differences must 
remain identical and the experimental differ­
ences, of course, must be as precise and well­
controlled as possible. Inocula must be the 
same, cap management identical, etc. 
C. CONTROLS AND REPLICATION 
The control experimental sample(s) must be 
identical to the other experimental samples 
except they are the ones without the new 
experimental differences under study. Ordi­
narily they are the ones with the standard 
practice. A commercial lot made from the 
same grapes or the remainder lot as just de­
scribed may be a useful comparison as well, 
but it should be in addition to, not instead of, 
the proper experimental control sample. Since 
the experimental control is often needed in 
greater amount than the other experimental 
samples, particularly for taste testing, it may be necessary either to make additional lots of the 
control or to make excess volume of the other 
experimental samples to match the size of the 
control. 
In all biological materials including grapes 
and wine there are considerable variations. In 
order to estimate whether or not a result ob­
tained from experimentation is likely to be 
real and not a happenstance, analysis of vari­
ance or other statistical examination is re­
quired. To apply statistics, it is necessary to 
have sufficient replication (repeated samples 
or experiments) so that the inherent variation 
can be estimated. Replication, of course, is 
costly of effort and materials, so it should not 
be excessive or applied where unnecessary. 
The usual error, however, is too little rather 
than too much replication. If wines are to be 
made to study a viticultural situation, repli­
cates are usually necessary in the vineyard. 
Depending upon the goal of the experiments, 
it may be necessary to keep harvests from 
these vineyard replicates (plots, etc.) separate 
and make wines from each. However, it is not 
usually necessary to make duplicate or truly 
repeat wines from the same lot of grapes if 
proper technique is followed. Two portions of 
the same must separated as indicated so as to 
be truly representative, inoculated and fer­
mented identically give essentially identical 
WInes. 
However, to be sure that the findings are 
applicable in general it is usually important to 
replicate the whole experimental procedure 
several times with new grapes. For example, it 
is much more certain that the results of an 
experiment apply to, say, red wines in general 
or even Cabernet Sauvignon in particular, if 
several lots of red grapes from several varieties 
or Cabernet Sauvignon grapes from diverse 
sources have been investigated. Seasonal varia­
tion is likely to be high and replication over 
several vintages is necessary to determine 
whether or not the results are the norm or 
only applicable in certain seasons. Remember 
that, at the usually chosen confidence level, 
significant results are to be expected by acci­
dent once in 20 trials. Of course, winery own-Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 543 
ers are not scientists and may press hard for 
financially useful results at low cost. Since to­
day winemaking is based on good standards of 
practice, an erroneous result is likely to prove 
more costly in the long run than carefully 
done, proper research. 
Often wine research centers around assess­
ment of yeast strain or on altering the micro­
bial dynamics of winemaking. Examples in­
clude testing the impact on quality by wild 
yeasts or of particular malolactic bacteria. In 
these types of studies, it is critical to include as 
part of the procedure reisolation of the organ­
ism utilized. If no effect is noted after addition 
of a novel microbe, this might be because it 
does not, in fact, produce the effect, but it 
could be that it was not successful against the 
competition and failed to grow or metabolize 
at all. Many wineries have resident microflora 
that are well adapted to the growth conditions 
of the winery. 
Microbial growth and metabolic activities 
are strongly impacted by nutrient composition 
as well as by physical parameters of tempera­
ture and pH. Overcooling or superheating of 
one trial lot will dramatically affect the experi­
mental results. Such lots should be deleted 
from further analysis. How the inoculum is 
prepared is an important variable, particularly 
for studies of the malolactic bacteria. Inocu­
lum regime can affect preadaptation and via­
bility and may introduce carry over of nutri­
ents or end products to the wine lots. Unless 
special yeasts or bacteria are to be tested, it is 
probably best to use commercial preparations: 
active dry yeast or freeze-dried bacteria indi­
vidually reconstituted for each experiment ac­
cording to the manufacturer's instructions. 
Sample handling is also critical. If a sample 
is simply removed from the tank and stored in 
the refrigerator, there could be further micro­
bial growth and metabolism making this sam­
pIe no longer representative of the condition 
from which it was taken. Such samples could 
be filter sterilized to remove microbes and 
prevent further activity. Storage at or below 
-20°C would also stop microbial and most 
chemical activity; however, such a low temper-ature causes tartrates and other compounds to 
precipitate, affecting the chemical parameters 
of the sample. Possible variable growth or 
chemical reaction such as oxidation during 
thawing of frozen samples is another problem. 
Many studies of nutrient addition under­
taken commercially suffer from the problem 
of a compound simply being added with no 
knowledge of the starting concentration of 
that compound. Very little, if anything, can be 
learned from these kinds of trials. Similar 
problems arise from addition of other non­
nutrient reactants in chemical as well as in 
microbiological experiments. 
Depending upon the magnitude of the ex­
perimental differences found in relation to 
the variation among the different control sam­
ples, more or less replication is required for a 
given level of confidence. 
Consultation with a biometric statistician or 
at least application of statistical methods de­
scribed in good current texts are recom­
mended, but are beyond the scope of this 
presentation. Modern computer programs 
have made statistical analysis relatively easy, 
but should be applied appropriately. A bit 
more about statistics will be mentioned in con­
nection with chemical and sensory analysis of 
experimental wines. 
D. CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL 
ANALYSES OF EXPERIMENTAL WINES 
All wines should be subjected to appropriate 
analyses during their production and storage 
to meet the requirements of regulatory agen­
cies and to give the winemaker information to 
monitor the operations properly. Experimen­
tal wines often require additional analyses to 
obtain more complete information and study 
the specific effects of the experimental condi­
tions. There is no sense in doing the experi­
ments unless analytical methods are available 
to evaluate the results. Planning for these 
analyses and the labor and timing for them 
should precede initiation of the experiments. 
Some analyses can be done more or less at 544 Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation oj Experimental Wines 
leisure on the finished wine, others must be 
done at specific moments or the experiment is 
spoiled. Sometimes interim samples can be 
quickly frozen and held for later analyses as a 
group. Other cases arise where this is not 
possible for experimental or logistic reasons. 
Since analyses for experimental wines often 
involve new or seldom-applied analyses, famil­
iarity with current research and/or a litera­
ture search through Chemical Abstracts is very 
helpful. Much good fundamental and most 
applied research can be done, however, apply­
ing standard wine and must analyses such as 
described by Ough and Amerine (1988). Even 
if new and unusual analyses are also applied, 
sufficient standard analyses are needed to 
characterize and validate the wines. Since 
analyses vary as do subsamples, it is usually 
wise to run analyses at least in duplicate and to 
retest so as to discard erratic results when the 
duplicates do not agree. Statistical methods 
are useful to validate application of new ana­
lytical procedures. It is important to not con­
fuse replicating an analysis of the same sample 
or even of duplicate subsamples with replicat­
ing an experiment for statistical analysis of the 
findings. 
E. SENSORY EVALUATION 
Even the most sophisticated chemical analysis 
cannot now, and probably never will, define 
the subtle flavors that make one wine greater 
than another in the opinion of observant con­
sumers. That is as it should be. As a conse­
quence, it is almost always necessary to com­
pare wines by sensory analysis in addition to 
chemical and physical methods. This is true of 
commercial wines, but often especially so with 
experimental wines. More details of panel se­
lection, testing procedures, statistical analysis, 
and other aspects of sensory evaluation of 
wines than can be covered here are given by 
Amerine and Roessler (1983). 
In spite of opinion to the contrary by wine 
writers and some winemakers, one person's 
opinion is hardly definitive on any wine's sen-sory character and quality. That is not to sa} 
that one taster may not be better than another 
in natural ability, concentrated effort, amount 
of experience, and/or comparative memory. 
Furthermore, there is considerable agreement 
among expert tasters after simultaneous but 
independent evaluation of a group of wines. 
Most prestigious wine show judgings have ev­
ery wine evaluated individually by at least four 
judges and usually the winning wines twice or 
more after recoding and re-presentation blind. 
In evaluation of the sensory qualities of one or 
more wines a panel of tasters is necessary. This 
panel should be as sensitive and experienced 
as possible, but each individual is erratic, bi­
ased, or unobservant on some occasions, hence 
the need for panels and statistical evaluation 
of the tasting results. 
The size of the panel is affected by the 
availability of competent and willing partici­
pants. They must be steadfast during repeated 
tastings of samples not identified to them and 
not discussed with their colleagues during the 
duration of the trials. In general, the panel 
should be as large as possible, but in practical 
terms about 10 is usual. Statistical evaluation 
almost always shows significant differences in 
ratings for the same wines among judges and a 
judges x treatment rating interaction unless 
the panel is highly selected and intensively 
trained, i.e., judges differ in assessment of 
wines and treatment effects. Too few judges 
risks excessive effects from unusual palates; a 
large panel is more costly. 
The question of whether it is better to have 
a highly selected panel acutely sensitive to 
particular wine features under study or a large 
panel that more closely resembles the whole 
consuming public can never satisfactorily be 
given a single answer. If a trained panel can­
not find a significant difference between two 
wines, one can safely conclude the public 
would not care about any small differences 
that might be found after more exhaustive 
study by a larger panel. One cannot conclude, 
however, that the public would detect, care 
about, or unanimously prefer a small flavor Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 545 
difference between two wines as found by a 
small expert panel. 
Unanimity of preference is a rare occur­
rence; we have all known individuals who liked 
foods we could not abide. For this reason it is 
usual to distinguish between difference and 
hedonic taste testing. It is somewhat an article 
of faith that if a difference is easily detected 
there will be one level inherently better than 
another. This is only certain if the higher level 
of the flavor involved is either detested or 
desired by everyone. Even then a low level of 
an unattractive flavor can add to complexity 
and be seen as favorable. The public is suscep­
tible to being sold a flavor seen in other con­
texts as bad and indicating lower quality. An 
example will serve to clarify this idea. Bret­
tanomyces infection of wine can lead to a rather 
strong, easily recognized, barnyardy or horsey 
flavor. Such infection arising in a winery's 
wine previously free of it leads to consterna­
tion and strenuous efforts to eliminate it. 
However, in certain nameless foreign areas of 
the world such infection has been so common 
that, even after blending with the available 
healthy wines, the horseyness is detectable. 
We have no objection if a winery or wine 
appellation group attempts to make a virtue of 
an ordinarily objectionable situation. How­
ever, faculty and graduates of the University of 
California at Davis have been criticized for 
wanting wines to be too sanitary (!) and sup­
posedly therefore uninteresting. This debate 
actually centers around the issue of the defi­
nition of an appellation. Does appellation re­
fer to varietal and viticultural character unique 
to a specific region or should it also be applied 
to the character of a regional wine arising 
solely as a consequence of winemaking style, a 
style that could be practiced anywhere? Our 
bias is clearly for the first definition, but we 
recognize the fact that many European appel­
lations fall into the second definition or are a 
combination of the two. To again use Bret­
tanomyces as the example, the Brettanomyces 
barnyard character is distinctive and indepen­
dent of any soil or climatic factors. This yeast 
is resident in wineries, particularly prevalent in poorly sanitized barrels and wooden tanks. 
It can be found anywhere in the world. The 
same Brettanomyces characters will be imparted 
to all varieties in all climates. Brettanomyces 
metabolites are dominant and mask other fla­
vors. In wines possessing a poor varietal pro­
file, Brettanomyces might add nuances impor­
tant to an otherwise bland wine devoid of 
significant character of its own. Exceptional 
varietal character is masked, not improved, by 
Brettanomyces infection. In our considerable ex­
perience with consumer groups, most do not 
like the Brettanomyces character even without 
knowing the origin of the off-flavors and aro­
mas. Nevertheless, customers who have learned 
to expect the Brettanomyces character are dis­
comfited if it is called a defect and down­
graded. 
The flavors and effects of the grape, the 
climate, the vintage, the terroir, the fermenta­
tion, and the processing after fermentation 
can only come through as the winemaker 
plans, if the wine is clean and not subject to 
some unforeseen and experimentally uncon­
trolled variable. If these intentions are clouded 
by unknown or uncontrolled microbiology or 
other conditions, the wines will not be repro­
ducible. This might be considered romantic by 
some, but it certainly has no place in good 
experimentation and is a disservice to produc­
ers and consumers alike, wine writers to the 
contrary notwithstanding. 
1. Difference Testing 
As the name implies, difference testing proce­
dures are intended to answer whether or not 
there is a detectable difference between two 
wines, and by extension, among wines. The 
simplest is a paired test: two glasses identified 
only by codes are presented and the panelist 
asked to identify the wine highest in some 
characteristic. The characteristic should be 
named specifically such as acidity, oakiness, 
bitterness, etc. It becomes a hedonic test to ask 
which is higher in quality, a term requiring 
opinion as well as detection. "Do they differ" 
is almost invariably answered "yes" and is 546 Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 
uninformative. The need for a specific and 
perhaps revealing question is a weakness of 
paired testing for differences, but it is often 
the procedure most sensitive to small differ­
ences. 
Chances of a correct guess are 50%, and 
the detection threshold is the minimum con­
centration of the named characteristic found 
by the panelists at 50% above chance fre­
quency. Difference is called a one-tailed test, 
because only the high end of the frequency 
distribution is involved. Various levels of sig­
nificance may be used, but the most common 
is a probability of 0.05, i.e., only once out of 
20 trials could such a result be an accident. 
Tables (Amerine and Roessler 1983) give the 
minimum number of agreeing or correct 
judgments to establish such statistical signifi­
cance following different numbers of trials 
(panelists X replicate sample pairs). For 10 
trials, nine must be correct or agree for sig­
nificance, and similarly 15 out of 20 or 26 out 
of 40 trials are significant in paired testing. 
Another procedure used for difference test­
ing is the triangular test where three glasses 
are presented and the panelist told that two 
contain the same wine and one is different. 
The task is to match the two that are alike (or 
identity the different). Clearly there is a cor­
rect answer, no leading question need be 
asked, and the probability of guessing cor­
rectly is one out of three. Significance (p = 
0.05) requires 7/10, 11/20, or 20/40 correct 
trials (Amerine and Roessler 1983). 
2. Sample Presentation, Biases 
Human beings have many subtle biases of 
which they are unaware. To ensure that the 
tasting results are not skewed by these biases 
or faults of presentation, the samples, codes, 
order, etc., must be randomized. Randomiza­
tion should be accomplished by means such as 
casting dice, drawing from an equal number 
(and returning, mixing after each draw) of 
colored marbles, or, best of all, using a table 
of random numbers. Do not simply choose a 
series that seems to be without order. Codes to be used to designate wine glasses such as A 
and B are biased and usually A is chosen over 
B. It has been found generally preferable to 
use three-digit numbers randomly chosen as 
serving glass markers. Which sample is served 
first, second, etc. in a series or on the left in 
pairs should also be randomized. When un­
able to tell differences, right-handers tend to 
choose the right-hand sample, left-handers 
choose the left. Aberrant significance might 
be obtained if one treatment was always on 
one side and the panel was all right-handed. 
Wine color often biases flavor opinion. If 
flavor differences are sought, mask color dif­
ferences by opaque sample glasses, special 
lighting, and perhaps even screened spittoons. 
If possible, arrange things so the panelists are 
prevented from biasing the results, but are 
unaware of restrictions. For example, it was 
found that some panelists could do better if 
mild unsalted crackers were available to "clear 
the palate" between wines, but if forced to 
take a bit of cracker each time, they did poorer. 
A panel manager should take every care to 
ensure that the panelists are comfortable, not 
distracted, and kept interested and happy. It is 
desirable to limit the samples judged at one 
sitting to a small number, perhaps 10, depend­
ing upon the panelists and the fatiguing na­
ture of the samples. Of course, it is important 
to see that the panelists are expectorating the 
wines. About 30 mL is the minimum sample to 
get reliable results. 
3. Hedonic, Preference, or Quality 
Comparisons 
All the concerns and cautions with regard to 
sample coding, randomization, etc., men­
tioned above are probably even more impor­
tant during quality testing because the deci­
sions are more difficult, more a matter of 
personal opinion, and more wines are proba­
bly being presented together. In many cases 
difference testing will precede hedonic test­
ing. At least some preliminary testing should 
be done. If no difference can be detected, why 
look for quality differences? However, a dif-Preparation, Analysis, and Evaluation of Experimental Wines 547 
ference may be detectable, but too small or 
too controversial to produce a significant pref­
erence. If half of a panel liked it considerably 
and half did not, significant preference would 
never be achieved, but two derived products 
might improve the total market. 
If paired testing is used and the question is 
which do you prefer, it is called a two-tailed 
test because both extremes of the distribution 
curve are important. At the same significance 
level, p = 0.05, preference will be more dif­
ficult to obtain, but the required degree of 
agreement is nearly the same, nine of 10 trials, 
15 of 20, and 27 of 40 trials (Amerine and 
Roessler 1983). Other test procedures can be 
used, of course, including three-sample dif­
ference tests, if followed by a preference or 
quality rating in those instances where the 
difference was correctly detected. Ranking is 
difficult to apply, because the relative differ­
ence among the samples may be confusing. 
Five samples may be ranked in a certain order, 
but four may be relatively similar and the fifth 
much different. Hedonic scale ratings may be 
useful and graphic, computerized, or based on 
statements such as "like extremely," "like 
moderately," "like slightly," on down to "dis­
like extremely. " For statistical analysis, these 
ratings are converted to numbers (not includ­
ing zero), or numbered ratings can be made 
directly by the panelists. Various scales can be 
used, often 10, 20, or 100 points, and each has 
its advocates. In fact, studies have suggested 
that humans cannot usefully rate unspoiled, 
commercially acceptable foods or wines be­
yond about eight sensorily hedonic levels ow­
ing to time-to-time variation by the same per­
son much less variation among people. For 
this reason a scorecard approach which rates 
acceptable commercial wines from a low of 13 
to a high of 20 (eight levels) has had consider­
able use both in teaching prospective wine 
judges to consider a wine in the proper order 
(visual, odor, flavor, and integrated quality) 
and for rating experimental wines. In the lat­
ter case, it is often more useful to analyze 
clarity or color by spectrophotometry and mask improper levels with dark serving glasses so as 
to devote the full range of ratings to odor and 
flavor characteristics. 
Descriptive analysis is useful in selecting 
sensory terms to characterize the differences 
sought, training the panelists to use these terms 
similarly, and to exclude individuals from the 
final evaluations who are erratic, otherwise 
unreliable, or outliers. 
Statistical analysis of variance and some­
times additional mathematical procedures such 
as principal component analysis can be used 
to determine whether or not a group of wines 
differs or relates in rated qualities. Coupling 
sensory with chemical analysis may show or at 
least suggest why the differences occur. If the 
tested treatments have been found signifi­
cantly effective over replicate experiments in 
improving wine quality or keeping the same 
quality more effectively or at lower cost, com­
mercial application is warranted. Obviously, it 
is safest to verity the commercial applicability 
by further testing at the commercial-sized level. 
Scale-up is not always automatically equally 
satisfactory. 
Experimental winemaking followed by care­
ful commercial introduction of the improve­
ments discovered has been crucial in advanc­
ing California and other newer areas to the 
forefront among wines. Older areas have more 
and more accepted research results and reju­
venated their own research. These trends are 
certain to continue and, owing to the solution 
of the easier problems, wine and grape re­
search must continue to improve and become 
more sophisticated. 
F. REFERENCES 
AMERINE, M. A., and E. B. ROESSLER. 1983. Wines, 
Their Sensory Evaluation, Revised ed., New York: 
W. H. Freeman and Co. 
OUGH, C. S., and M. A. AMERINE. 1988. Methods for 
Analysis of Musts and Wines, 2d ed. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons. APPENDIX A 
METRIC UNIT CONVERSION 
CHART -SI, U.S. AND COMMON 
Inches 
12.00 
3.937 X 10- 2 
39.37 
Cubic 
feet 
1 
0.1337 
133.7 
3.531 X 10- 2 
35.31 
548 Feet 
8.333 X 10- 2 
1 
3.281 X 10- 3 
3.281 
Square feet 
1 
10.76 
Gallon 
(U.S.) 
7.481 
1 
1000 
0.2642 
264.2 (Read across) 
Length 
Area 
Volume 
1000 
Gallons 
7.481 X 10- 3 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 
2.642 X 10- 4 
0.2642 Millimeters 
25.4 
304.8 
1000 
Square meters 
0.0929 
Liters 
28.32 
3.786 
3786 
1000 Meters 
2.54 X 10- 2 
0.3048 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 
Cubic 
meter 
2.832 X 10- 2 
3.786 X 10- 3 
3.786 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 Pounds 
2000 
2.205 X 10- 3 
2.205 
2205 
ft3/s 
1 
3.447 X 10- 2 
2.205 X 10- 3 
3.531 X 10- 2 
35.31 
Ib/ft3 
1 
62.4 Tons (U.S.) 
5.000 X 10- 4 
1 
1.102 X 10- 6 
1.102 X 10- 3 
1.102 
1000 gal./hr 
29.10 
1 
6.460 X 10- 2 
1.027 
1027 
6.240 X 10- 2 
lb/ft/hr 
2.419 
2419 
0.5778 
ft2/hr 
3.875 X 104 
1 
0.239 
Btu/hr /ft2 /oF 
1 
0.1761 Mass 
Grams 
453.6 
9.072 X 10+ 5 
1 
1000 
1.000 X 10+ 6 
Volumetric flow rate 
gal./min 
485.0 
15.48 
1 
15.85 
1.585 X 104 
Density 
g/cm3 
1.602 X 10- 2 
1 
1.000 X 10- 3 
Viscosity 
Centipoise 
0.4134 
1 
1000 
Thennal conductivity 
Diffusivity 
Heat capacity 
Heat transfer coefficient Kilograms 
0.4536 
907.2 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 
1000 
L/s 
28.32 
0.9737 
6.309 X 10- 2 
1 
1000 Appendix A 549 
Tons (Metric) (Tm) 
4.536 X 10- 4 
0.9072 
1.000 X 10- 6 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 
m3/s 
2.832 X 10- 2 
9.737 X 10- 4 
6.309 X 10- 5 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 
kg/m3 
16.02 1000 
Pascal.second 
4.134 X 10- 2 
1.000 X 10- 3 
1 
W /m 2/(OC/m) 
1.731 
1 
2.581 X 10- 5 550 Appendix A 
Mass transfer coefficient 
lb-mole/hr /ft2 /mole fraction kg-mole/s/m 2/mole fraction 
1.356 X 10-3 
mmHg 
51.71 
760.0 
750.1 1 
737.5 
7.501 X 10-3 
BTU 
3413 
1.285 X 10-3 
3.966 X 10-3 
9.484 X 10- 4 
Horsepower 
1 
1.341 
l.818 X 10-3 
l.415 
1.341 X 10-3 0.2250 
psi 
1.934 X 10- 2 
1 
14.70 14.50 
1.450 
X 10- 4 
kWhr 
2.930 X 10- 4 
1 
3.766 X 10- 7 
1.162 X 10- 6 
2.772 X 10- 7 
Kilowatt 
0.7457 
1 
l.356 X 10-3 
1.055 
l.00 X 10-3 Force 
Pressure 
Atmosphere 
1.316 X 10-3 
6.805 X 10- 2 
1 
0.9869 
9.870 X 10- 6 
Heat, energy, or work 
ftlbr 
778.2 
2.655 X 10+ 6 
1 
3.086 
0.7376 
Power 
Ftlbr/s 
550.0 
737.56 
1 
778.16 
0.7376 
Volumetric Flux 1 
Newton 
4.444 
Bar 
1.333 X 10-3 
6.895 X 10- 2 
1.013 
1.000 X 10-5 
Calorie 
252.0 
8.604 X 10+ 5 
0.3241 
0.2390 
BTU/s 
0.7068 
0.9478 
l.285 X 10- 3 
1 
9.478 X 10- 4 Pascal 
133.3 
6.895 X 103 
1.013 X 105 
l.000 X 105 
Joule 
1055 
3.600 X 10+ 6 
1.356 
4.184 
Watt 
745.7 
1000 
l.356 
1055 
gal./ft2/hr 
1 m3/m2/s 
9.767 X 10- 5 
1 L/m2/s 
9.767 X 10- 2 
1000 10,239 
10.24 
0.3170 
meter = m 
Pascal = Pa 1.000 X 10-3 
Energy flux 
Gas constant, R 
8.314 kPa m3/kg-mole K (J/gm-mole K) 
Common unit abbreviations and prefixes W/m2 
3.155 
1 
Newton = N 
Watt = W 
gram = g liter = L 
Joule = J second = s 
J1-= micro 10- 6 m = milli 10-3 k = kilo 10+3 M = mega 10+ 6 APPENDIX B 
BATF REGULATIONS 
1. Approved Wine Treatments and 
Additives 
The u.s. winemaking regulations are estab­
lished by the publication of a proposed rule 
which is followed by a comment period in 
which winemakers, members of wine compa­
nies, trade organizations, and the public can 
submit opinions. These are then considered 
by the ATF staff and a decision is made and 
published in the Federal Register. The major 
philosophies are that permitted treatments 
should be "good commercial winemaking" 
practices, juices or wines should not undergo 
major changes in composition, and healthful­
ness must not be compromised. 
The most recent version of these is listed in 
Federal Register, Volume 55, Number 118, June 
19, 1990, pages 25019 to 25021 with amend­
ments listed in Federal Register, Volume 58, 
Number 193, October 7, 1993, pages 52222 to 
52232. The list covers the materials and treat­
ments that have been approved for winemak­
ing and these are summarized in Table B-1 
with related comments. It should be under-stood that these are individually and generally 
permitted, but no single wine would have more 
than a few additions or treatments. Several are 
alternatives to achieve the same result, many 
involve treatments that leave no residue and 
some are aimed at special but rare circum­
stances. A treatment or additive not specifi­
cally allowed by the regulations is prohibited 
until a Conditional Use Permit is granted or 
new regulations or interpretations are forth­
coming. 
Regulations in other countries are not the 
same. The U.S. practice has been to allow 
importation of wines as long as they are legally 
made in their home country and honestly la­
beled. The reverse frequently has not been the 
case. The Office International Vigne et Vin 
(ON) is the international organization that 
attempts to set uniform regulations worldwide, 
but tends to view the European practices as 
sacrosanct. 
Labeling is controlled by additional regula­
tions governing what must be stated on the 
label, e.g., alcohol content, what may be stated, 
and the tolerances of concentrations. 
551 552 Appendix B 
Table B-1. Approved materials and the limits of their use in winemaking (BATF 1990, 1993). 
Materials 
Acacia (gum arabic) 
Activated carbon 
Albumen (egg white) Use 
To clarify and stabilize wine 
To assist precipitation during fermen­
tation, to clarify and to purify wine 
To remove color in wine and/or 
juice from which the wine as pro­
duced 
Fining agent for wine 
Aluminosilicates (hydrated) e.g., ben- To clarify and to stabilize wine or 
tonite (Wyoming clay) and kaolin juice 
Ammonium carbonate Yeast nutrient to facilitate fermenta­
tion to wine 
Ammonium phosphate (mono- and 
dibasic) 
Ascorbic acid, iso-ascorbic acid 
(erythorbic acid) Yeast nutrient in wine production 
and to start secondary fermentation 
in the production of sparkling wines 
To prevent oxidation of color and 
flavor components of juice and wine. 
Calcium carbonate (with or without To reduce the excess natural acids in 
calcium salts or tartaric and malic 
acids) 
Calcium sulfate (gypsum) 
Carbon dioxide (including food grade 
dry ice) 
Casein, potassium salt of casein 
Citric acid high acid wine, and in juice prior to 
or during fermentation 
A fining agent for cold stabilization 
To lower pH in sherry wine 
To stabilize 2 and to preserve wine 
To clarify wine 
To correct natural acid deficiencies 
in wine Reference or limitation 
The amount used shall not exceed 2 
Ib/lOOO gal. (0.24 giL) of wine 
(GRAS)!. 
The amount used to clarify and pu­
rify wine shall be included in the total 
amount of activated carbon used to 
remove excessive color in wine 
(GRAS). 
The amount used to treat the wine, 
including the juice from which the 
wine was produced, shall not exceed 
25 lb/IOOO gal. (3.0 giL). If the 
amount necessary exceeds this limit, 
a notice is required (GRAS). 
May be prepared in a light brine I oz 
(28.35 grams) potassium chloride, 2 
lb (907.2 grams) egg white, I gal. 
(3.785 L) of water. Usage not to 
exceed 1.5 gal of solution/I ,000 gal. 
of wine (GRAS). 
(GRAS) 
The natural fixed acids shall not be 
reduced beow 5 giL. The amount 
used shall not exceed 2 lb/IOOO gal. 
(0.24 giL) (GRAS). 
The amount used shall not exceed 8 
lb/IOOO gal. (0.96 giL) of wine 
(GRAS). 
May be added to fruit, grapes, berries, 
and other primary winemaking mate­
rials, or to the juice of such materials, 
or to the wine, within limitations 
which do not alter the class or type of 
the wine (GRAS). 
The natural or fixed acids shall not 
be reduced below 6 giL (GRAS). 
The amount used shall not exceed 30 
lb/IOOO gal. (3.60 giL) of wine. 
The sulfate content of the finished 
wine shall not exceed 2.0 giL, ex­
pressed as potassium sulfate (GRAS). 
(GRAS) 
GRAS) 
(GRAS) 
To stabilize wine other than citrus The amount of citric acid shall not 
wine exceed 5.8 lb/IOOO gal. (0.7 g/l) 
(GRAS). Table B-1. (Continued) 
Materials 
Copper sulfate 
Defoaming agents: (polyoxyethylene 
40 monostearate, silicon dioxide, 
dimethylpolysiloxane, sorbitan 
monostearate, glyceryl monooleate, 
and glyceryl dioleate). 
Dimethyl dicarbonate 
Enzymatic activity 
Carbohydrase (alpha-amylase) 
Carbohydrase (beta-amylase) 
Carbohydrase (glycoamylase, 
amyloglucosidase) 
Catalase 
Cellulase 
Glucose oxidase 
Pectinase 
Protease (general) Use 
To remove hydrogel sulfide and/or 
mercaptans from wine 
To control foaming, fermentation ad­
junct 
To sterilize and to stabilize wine, 
dealcoholized wine, and low alcohol 
wine 
To convert starchs to fermentable 
carbohydrates 
To convert starches to fermentable 
carbohydrates 
To convert starches to fermentable 
carbohydrates 
To clarify and to stabilize wine Appendix B 553 
Reference or limitation 
The quantity of copper sulfate added 
(calculated as copper) shall not ex­
ceed 0.5 parts copper per million 
parts of wine (0.5 mg/L) with the 
residual level of copper not to be in 
excess of 0.5 parts per million (0.5 
mg/L) (GRAS). 
Defoaming agents which are 100% 
active may be used in amounts not 
exceeding 0.15 Ib/l000 gal. (0.018 
giL) of wine, defoaming agents which 
are 30% active may be used in 
amounts not exceeding 0.5 Ib/l000 
gal. (0.05 giL) of wine. Silicon diox­
ide shall be completely removed by 
filtration. The amount of silicon re­
maining in the wine shall not exceed 
10 parts per million. 
DMDC may be added to wine, deal­
coholized wine, and low-alcohol wine 
in a cumulative amount not to ex­
ceed 200 parts per million (200 
mg/L). 
The enzyme preparation used shall 
be prepared from nontoxic and non­
pathogenic microorganisms in accor­
dance with good manufacturing prac­
tice and be approved for use in food 
by either FDA regulation of by FDA 
advisory opinion. 
The amylase enzyme activity shall be 
derived from Aspergillus niger, As -
pergillus oryzae, Bacillus subtilis, or bar-
ley malt from Rhizopus oryzae from 
Bacillus licheniformis. 
The amylase enzyme activity shall be 
derived from barely malt. 
The amylase enzyme activity shall be 
derived from Aspergillus niger or As­
pergillus oryzae or from Rhizopus oryzae 
or from Rhizopus niveus. 
The enzume activity used shall be 
derived from Aspergillus niger or 
bovine liver (GRAS). 
To clarify and to stabilize wine and to To enzyme activity used shall be de­
facilitate separation of the juice from rived from Aspergillus niger (GRAS). 
the fuit 
To clarify and to stabilize wine The enzyme activity used shall be 
derived from Aspergillus niger (GRAS). 
To clarify and to stabilize wine and to The enzyme activity used shall be 
facilitate separation of juice from the derived from Aspergillus niger (GRAS) 
fruit 
To reduce or to remove heat labile The enzyme activity used shall be 
proteins derived from Aspergillus niger or 
Bacillus subtilis or from Bacillus 
licheniformis (GRAS). 554 Appendix B 
Table B-1. (Continued) 
Materials 
Protease (bromelin) 
Protease (ficin) 
Protease (papain) 
Protease (pepsin) 
Protease (trypsin) 
Ethyl maltol 
Ferrocyanide compounds 
(sequestered complexes) 
Ferrous sulfate 
Fumaric acid 
Gelatin (food grade) 
Granular cork 
Hydrogen peroxide 
Ion exchange 
Isinglass 
Lactic acid 
Malic acid 
Malolactic bacteria 
Maltol Use Reference or limitation 
To reduce or to remove heat labile The enzyme activity used shall be 
proteins derived from Ananus comosus or 
Ananus bracteatus(L) (GRAS). 
To reduce or to remove heat labile 
proteins 
To reduce or to remove heat labile 
proteins 
To reduce or to remove heat labile 
proteins 
To reduce or to remove heat labile 
proteins 
To stabilize wine 
To remove trace metal from wine 
To clarify and to stabilize wine 
To correct natural acid deficiencies 
in grape wine, to stabilize wine 
To clarify juice or wine 
To smooth wine 
To remove color from the juice of 
red and black grapes 
To adjust acidity and/or pH 
To clarify wine 
To correct natural acid deficiencies 
in grape wine 
To correct natural acid deficiencies 
in juice or wine 
To stabilize grape wine 
To stabilize wine The enzyme activity used shall be 
derived from Ficus spp. (GRAS). 
The enzyme activity used shall be 
derived from Carica papaya (L) 
(GRAS). 
The enzyme activity used shall be 
derived from porcine or bovine stom­
achs (GRAS) 
The enzyme acuVlty used shall be 
derived from porcine or bovine pan­
creas (BRAS). 
Use authorized at a maximum level 
of 100 mg/L in all standard wines 
except natural wine produced from 
Vilis vinifera grapes. 
No insoluble or soluble residue in 
excess of 1 part per million shall 
remain in the finished wine and the 
basic character of the wine shall not 
be changed by such treatment (GRAS) 
The amount used shall not exceed 3 
oz/lOOO gal. (0.022 giL) of wine 
(GRAS). 
The fumaric acid content of the fin­
ished wine shall not exceed 2.4 giL. 
(GRAS) 
The amount used shall not exceed 10 
Ib/lOOO gal. of wine 0.2 giL) 
(GRAS). 
The amount used shall not exceed 
500 parts per million. The use of 
hydrogen peroxide is limited to oxi­
dizing color pigment in the juice of 
red and black grapes (GRAS). 
Treatment does not reduce the pH of 
the juice or wine to less than pH 2.8 
nor increase the pH to more than pH 
4.5. 
(GRAS) 
(GRAS) 
(GRAS) 
Malolactic bacteria of the type Leu­
conostoc oenos may be used in treating 
wine (GRAS). 
Use authorized at a maximum level 
of 250 mg/L in all standard wine 
except natural wine produced from 
Vilis vinifera grapes (GRAS). Table B-1. (Continued) 
Materials 
Milk (pasteurized whole or skim) 
Nitrogen gas 
Oak chips or particles, 
uncharred and untreated 
Oxygen and compressed air 
Polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (PVPP) Appendix B 555 
Use Reference or limitation 
Fining agent for white grape wine or The amount used shall not exceed 
sherry 2.0 L of pasteurized milk per 1000 L 
of white grape wine or sherry (0.2% 
v/v). 
To maintain pressure during filtering (GRAS) 
and bottling or canning of wine and 
to prevent oxidation of wine 
To smooth wine 
May be used in juice and wine None. 
To clarify and to stabilize wine and to The amount used to treat the wine, 
remove color from red or black wine including the juice from the wine was 
or juice produced, shall not exceed 60 
Ib/IOOO gal. (7.9 g/L) and shall be 
removed during filtration. PVPP may 
be used in a continuous or batch 
process. The finished wine shall re­
tain vinous character and shall have 
color of not less than 0.6 Lovibond in 
a one-half inch cell. 
Potassium bitartrate To stabilize grape wine The amount used shall not exceed 35 
Ib/1000 gal. (4.19 g/L) of grape wine 
Potassium carbonate and/or potas- To reduce excess natural acidity in 
siumbicarbonate wine and in juice prior to or during 
fermentation 
Potassium citrate pH control agent and sequestrant in 
treatment of citrus wines 
Potassium metabisulfite To sterilize and to preserve wine 
Silica gel (colloidal silicon dioxide) To clarify wine 
Sorbic acid and potassium salt 
of sorbic acid 
Soy flour (defatted) 
Sulfur dioxide To sterilize and to preserve wine; to 
inhibit mold growth and secondary 
fermentation 
Yeast nutrient to facilitate fermenta-
tion of wine 
To sterilize and to preserve wine (GRAS). 
The natural or fixed acids shall not 
be reduced below 5 parts per thou­
sand (5 g/L) (GRAS). 
The amount of potassium citrate shall 
not exceed 25 Ib/l000 gal. (3.0 g/L) 
of finished wine (GRAS). 
The sulfur dioxide content of the 
finished wine shall not exceed the 
limitations (GRAS). 
Use shall not exceed the equivalent 
of 20 lb colloidal silicon dioxide at a 
30% concentration per 1000 gal. of 
wine (2.4 g/L). Silicon dioxide shall 
be completely removed by filtration 
(GRAS). 
The finished wine shall contain not 
more than 300 milligrams of sorbic 
acid per liter of wine (GRAS). 
The amount used shall not exceed 2 
Ib/l000 gal. (0.24 g/L) of wine 
(GRAS). 
The sulfur dioxide content of the 
finished wine shall not exceed the 
limitations (GRAS). 556 Appendix B 
Table B-1. (Continued) 
Materials 
Tannin 
Tartaric acid 
Thermal gradient processing 
Thiamine hydrochloride 
Yeast, autolyzed 
Yeast, cell wall/membranes 
of autoluzed yeast Use 
To adjust tannin content in apple 
juice or in apple wine 
To clarity or to adjust tannin content 
of juice or wine (other than apple) 
To correct natural acid deficiencies 
in grape juice/wine and to reduce 
the pH of grape juice-wine where 
ameliorating material is used in the 
production of grape wine 
To separate wine into low-alcohol 
and high-alcohol wine fractions Reference or limitation 
The residual amount of tannin shall 
not exceed 3.0 giL calculated as 
gallic acid equivalents (GAE). Total 
tannin shall not be increased by more 
than 150 mh/L by the addition of 
tannic acid (polygalloylglucose). 
The residual amount of tanning, cal­
culated in gallic acid equivalents, shall 
not exceed 0.8 giL in white wine and 
3.0 giL in red wine. Only tannin 
which does not impact color may be 
used in the cellar treatment of juice 
or wine. Total tannin shall not be 
increased by more than 150 mg/L by 
the addition of tannic acid. 
(GRAS) 
The fractions derived from such pro­
cessing shall retain vinous character. 
Such treatment shall not increase the 
lacohol content of the high-alcohol 
fraction to more than 24% by vol­
ume. The addition of water other 
than that originally present in the 
wine prior to processing will render 
standard wine "other than standard." 
To separate juice into low Brix and The low Brix fraction derived from 
high Brix juice fractions such processing may be used in wine 
production. The high Brix fraction 
derived from such processing shall 
not be diluted with water for use in 
Yeast nutrient to facilitate fermenta­
tion wine 
Yeast nutrient to facilitate fermenta­
tion in the production of grape or 
fruit wine 
To facilitate fermentation of 
juice/wine wine production. 
The amount used shall not exceed 
0.005 lb/IOOO gal. (0.6 mg/L) of 
wine or juice (GRAS). 
GRAS) 
The amount used shall not exceed 3 
lb/IOOO gal. (0.36 giL) of the wine 
or juice (GRAS). 
[GRAS-an acronym for "generally recognized as safe." The term means that the treating material has an FDA listing in title 
21, Code of Federal Regulations, part 182 or part 184, or is considered to be generally recognized as safe by advisory opinion 
issued by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
2To stabilize-to prevent or to retard unwanted alteration of chemical and/or physical properties. APPENDIX C 
STAINLESS STEELS AND THEIR CLEANING 
Stainless steels are widely used in the wine and 
food industries due to their freedom from 
staining and discoloration, their inertness to 
oxidation and corrosion, and the ease with 
which their surfaces can be cleaned. The in­
ertness of stainless steels is due to the presence 
of at least 18% chromium in the alloy and a 
thin oxide film that adheres to the surface. 
Nickel {and in some cases also molybdenum} is 
generally added to further enhance the corro­
sion resistance. The presence of up to 8% 
carbon and the 18% chromium has led to the 
term 18-8 steels. These are also described as 
austenitic and they are nonmagnetic. 
1. Types of Stainless Steels 
The two main types of stainless steels that are 
used in wine and juice applications are 304 
and 316. The 304 steels can contain between 
16 and 25% chromium and 7 and 12% nickel 
and are highly ductile. This form is widely 
used in wineries throughout the United States 
although they are susceptible to pitting by 
dilute sulfur dioxide solutions and attack by concentrated sulfuric and hydrochloric acids. 
The 316 steels have chromium contents in the 
16 to 18% range, nickel between 10 and 14%, 
and molybdenum added at the 2 to 3% level 
and are more resistant to sulfur dioxide and 
inorganic anions such as sulfuric, phosphoric, 
and hydrochloric acids. Both series are vulner­
able to chloride ions, but 316 is less so. In 
other countries other designations are often 
used for these steel types (Table C-l). 
2. Passivation of Stainless Steel 
The protective oxide film can be destroyed by 
improper cleaning and maintenance proce­
dures and the metal which is exposed is then 
susceptible to oxidation and corrosion. The 
use of chlorine solutions with concentrations 
above 200 mgjL and scraping of the surface 
by steel wool, tools, or other metal objects and 
welding without adequate cleaning and passi­
vation are common reasons for corrosion of 
stainless surfaces. 
Passivation of the stainless steel is a process 
in which the surface is cleaned and the oxide 
557 558 Appendix C 
TableCI. Cross reference of stainless steel types (Troost 1980). 
England EN 58 E -58H 58 B, 58 C 
France Mnor Z 6 CN 18-10 Z3CND Z 10CNT 
Germany DIN X5 CrNi 
17006 (7) 18/9 
1.4301 
Italy UNI X6CN 
1911 
Sweden SIS 2333 
United States AlSI 304 
film is encouraged to develop. If corrosion 
exists, passivation is one approach to prevent­
ing further deterioration. While the oxide film 
will form naturally on clean exposed surfaces, 
the formation is aided by the use of strong 
acid mixtures and oxidizing agents. The wash­
ing of the surface with such a solution also 
dissolves any free iron present on the surface 
of the stainless steel and passivation can be 
used to remove rust spots from these surfaces. 
The 300 series of stainless steels can be 
passivated by using a 50% by volume solution 
made from concentrated nitric acid and water. 
A solution temperature of 55°C is recom­
mended for fastest results, although ambient 
temperature is acceptable for larger applica­
tions. The person performing the treatment 
should be wearing protective clothing, and for 
internal surface treatments or applications in 
confined spaces, the vessel or area should be 
well ventilated. The solution should be applied 
to the entire surface and this should be cov­
ered repeatedly. The surface being treated 
should be kept wet for approximately one 
hour before rinsing. The rinsing solution 
should be clean warm water and thorough 
rinsing is required to remove all traces of the 
acid. The surface should be wiped dry with a 
clean cloth and this should show no signs of 
discoloration when the treatment has been 
successful. The vessel is then ready for use. For 
applications using a solution-recirculating or 
CIP (clean-in-place) system, all fittings that are 
made of materials that would be attacked by X5 CrNiMo X 10 CrNiTi 
18/10 18/9 
1.4401 1.4541 
X8CND X8CNT 
1712 1808 
X8CNT 
1810 
2237 
316 321 
the acid solution should be removed in order 
to prevent attack and possible plating of the 
stainless surface, notably with copper. 
3. Types of Corrosion 
There are several different kinds of corrosion. 
The two most important for winemaking ap­
plications are pitting and stress-corrosion 
cracking. The understanding of these in re­
gard to the operating conditions will help to 
prevent future problems and assist in the spec­
ification of equipment materials. 
Pitting can occur in steels that are appar­
ently immune to certain solutions. It usually 
occurs as small deep pits that are confined to 
localized spots rather than across the general 
surface. The site can be a scratch, indent, or 
surface deposit that can lead to the breaking 
of the oxide film. Once the pit is formed the 
corrosion becomes accelerated due to local 
electrolytic action. In wine tanks that are made 
of 304 stainless steel, this can easily occur in 
headspace above a wine when the tank is par­
tially full. The condensation of water droplets 
on the walls of the tank dissolves sulfur diox­
ide from the headspace and a local low-pH 
corrosion site develops. The corrosion is not 
always obvious at first and once started it can 
continue even after the tank is emptied. This 
is less of a concern with 316 steels, but it is a 
good practice to avoid partially filled tanks 
wherever possible. 
Stress-corrosion cracking occurs when there 
is a combination of corrosion and applied stress in the metal. One particularly trouble­
some agent for the austenitic steels is the 
long-term exposure to chloride ions. Under 
winemaking conditions this can occur from 
dried deposits from the use of rinse waters 
that are high in chloride or inadequate rinsing 
following the use of hypochlorite solutions. It 
can also occur in equipment which is under 
periodic stress, such as pump impellers and Appendix C 559 
housings, and equipment that is periodically 
heated and cooled during use, such as heat 
exchangers that use steam as a heating 
medium. 
TROOST, G. 1980. Technologie des Weines, 2nd ed. 
p. 769. Stuttgart, Germany, Eugen Ulmer. APPENDIX D 
WATER UTILIZATION 
1. Water Usage 
Water is used in wineries for several purposes, 
but the greatest demand is for washing and 
sanitizing tanks, fermentors, barrels, and other 
process equipment during the harvest. The 
volumes used during the six- to eight-week 
harvest period are often between one-fifth and 
one-half those used during the entire year. 
Typical water usage figures for a number of 
wineries in California are presented in Figures 
D-l and D-2 and the values are expressed on a 
specific basis. The volume used depends on 
the size of the winery (and, indirectly, that of 
its fermentors), the extent of barrel usage for 
fermentation and aging, the ease of cleaning 
of the winery equipment and floors, and the 
approach that is adopted toward rinsing. 
Water requirements for the cleaning of 
tanks will usually be proportional to tank sur­
face area. The surface area of a cylindrical 
tank is proportional to the tank volume raised 
to the power 2/3 or 0.667 and the water 
required per volume of wine would then be 
proportional to tank volume raised to the 
power -1/3 or -0.33. With barrels, the same 
relationship would be expected for the clean-
560 ing of the inner surface area but the volume 
used may be closer to the volume of the bar­
rel, especially so for soaking and rinsing treat­
ments. The other components will be related 
to the rinsing of pipe lines, floor areas, and 
process equipment and these will not gener­
ally follow any particular geometric scaling 
law. 
The observed values (Figures D-l and D-2) 
are well correlated by the following relation­
ships: 
Harvest: 
Water consumption (L/T m crushed) 
= 10,168 [Tmro.292 
Annual: 
Water consumption (L/T m crushed) 
= 50,920 [Tm rO.326 
where the exponents -0.292 (harvest) and 
-0.326 (annual) are like those expected from 
the surface area function but with significant 
water usage for other purposes, especially dur­
ing the harvest. Appendix D 561 
1000 
j:: 
...... 
d 
8 
m 
::J 
Qj 100 •• .... 
III 
~ 
U 
~ 
ti 
Q) 
at 
10 
100 1000 10000 100000 
Grape Intake (T) 
Fig. D-l. The seasonal water usage of California wineries. 
2. Wastewater Characteristics 
The importance of the water consumption is 
that it generally becomes the wastewater vol­
ume that needs to be treated and discharged. 
The seasonal nature of the water usage in 
wineries will require special design considera­
tions, and the batch and cyclical use associated 
with equipment rinsing during the days of 
harvest will also need special flow dampening 
10000 
j:: ...... 
d 
8 III (/j 
::J 
Qj 1000 .... 
III 
~ 
U 
~ 
ti 
Q) 
at 
100 
100 1000 components in order that efficient perfor­
mance be obtained by any treatment system. 
The components of winery wastewater that 
are important to a biological treatment system 
are the biological oxygen demand or BOD, 
the pH, the suspended solids content, and the 
presence or absence of microbial inhibitors 
and nutrients for the microorganisms. The 
level of the suspended solids will usually deter-
• 
10000 100000 
Grape Intake (T) 
Fig. D-2. The annual water usage of California wineries. 562 Appendix D 
mine the frequency of sludge removal, and the 
pH will determine the spectrum of organisms 
that can grow successfully in the pond or 
digester. The biological oxygen demand is a 
measure of the microbially degradable solutes 
present in the water and will be related to the 
rate at which oxygen must be transported into 
the water for effective microbial growth and 
metabolism in aerobic systems. 
In winery wastewater, the major BOD com­
ponents will be the sugars, glucose and fruc­
tose from juices and from wine it will be 
ethanol, glycerol, and tartaric and malic acids. 
There will be a significant chemical oxygen 
demand (COD) from wines due to the phenols 
and sulfite. All of these will be diluted out with 
general rinse water and some pickup will oc­
cur from grape solids and yeasts that are 
washed away. There may be a major BOD 
contribution due to citrate that has been used 
in acidic rinse waters. The contribution from 
sugars will disappear after the fermenting sea­
son and the water characteristics will approach 
those associated with wine residues from rins­
ing and the sanitizers, detergents, and soften­
ers associated with equipment cleaning. 
The rinse water can also contain significant 
chemical sanitizers such as hypochlorite. These 
will be especially destructive to the microflora 
of a treatment pond, especially at a pH of 6.0 
to 8.0. Sulfur dioxide solutions that are 
dumped have the potential to be particularly 
damaging, but if the pH is raised to 7.0, the 
antimicrobial activity will be lost and the sul­
fite becomes a component of the chemical 
oxygen demand. 
The organic acid content of juices and wines 
and the presence of citrate will cause signifi­
cant swings in the buffer capacities in winery 
rinse water streams and this will require a 
more sophisticated pH adjustment system than 
those commonly used in other applications. 
While many wine makers are aware of the 
importance of trace nutrition for microorgan­
isms on successful growth rates and byproduct 
formation, the same is not generally true when 
the activity of wastewater treatment culture is 
concerned. The corresponding practice of in-oculating wastewater with active cultures and 
providing sufficient vitamin, nitrogen, and 
phosphorus is still in its infancy with a general 
tendency to use standard supplements of am­
monia and phosphorus, based on the nutri­
tional requirements of other wastes. 
There are only a few published reports of 
the compositional characteristics of winery 
wastewater. Ranges for the major design char­
acteristics are given in Table D-I, based on the 
reports by Rice (1978) and Crites (1987). 
The usable nitrogen and phosphorus con­
tents are especially low and the pH is close to 
neutral when large volumes of water are used. 
The data of Rice (1978) indicate a water con­
sumption of almost four volumes of water per 
volume of wine and come from a time when 
water usage was less of a concern. The values 
reported by Rice also show variations of almost 
twofold, both above and below the means in 
BOD and COD during the season. The sea­
sonal pH variation ranged from 3.7 to 11.7 
and the suspended solids content ranged from 
40 to 2250 mg/L. The specific BOD load for 
this winery was 9.2 kg/Tm of grapes. 
The current limit for BOD in one coastal 
region of California is 50 mg/L with a oneday 
maximum of 90 mg/L. Other limits are shown 
in Table D-2. 
Table D-l. Reported waste water characteristics 
for wineries. 
Harvest 
Characteristic 1 period Nonharvest 
BOD (mgjL) 2550 2840 
COD (mgjL) 3530 4050 
SS (mgjL) 250 400 
NH3 (mg NjL) 4.3 4.2 
TN (mgNjL) 19.3 27.2 
TP(mgPjL) 4.2 5.9 
pH 7.5 7.0 
lBOD is the biological oxygen demand. 
COD is the chemical oxygen demand. 
SS is the suspended solids content. General 
950 
nja 
286 
10 
33 
nja 
6.5 
NH3 is the nitrogen concentration in the form of ammonia. 
TN is the total nitrogen concentration. 
TP is the total phosphorus concentration. Table D-2. Typical discharge limits for one water control 
region in California. 
Characteristic Daily maximum 30-day average 
BOD (five day, mg/L) 80 
Suspended solids (mg/L) 80 
Settleable solids (mL/L) 0.2 
pH 6.5 to 8.5 
BOD is the biological oxygen demand. 
3. Efficient Use Strategies 50 
50 
0.1 
6.5 to 8.5 
The more efficient use of winery water will 
require a closer examination of the purpose 
for each use. There are some situations in 
which the development of separate rinsing, 
sanitizing, and acidirying streams could be used 
several times before discharge provided that 
the stream is filtered to remove suspended 
matter. The ability to incorporate separate Appendix D 563 
streams with recycling depends on the ease 
with which any cleaning stream can be cap­
tured and recovered. The development of sep­
arate tanks for such streams together with 
appropriate filtration and/or sterilization 
components has the potential to reduce water 
usage to a fraction of present levels. The con­
tainment of such streams would also permit 
more specific treatment of them prior to dis­
charge so as to minimize disturbances to the 
treatment system. 
CRITES, R. W. 1987. "Winery wastewater land appli­
cations." Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng. Irrigation and 
Drainage Division, Special Conf., Portland, Ore­
gon,July 28-30. 
RICE, A. 1978. "Long-term activated sludge treat­
ment of winery waste waters." Am. J. Enol. Vitic. 
29: 177-180. APPENDIX E 
SAFETY LIMITS OF SOME WINE-RELATED 
COMPOUNDS 
There are a number of federal and state codes 
that apply to conditions of worker exposure 
and working environments, fire protection, 
buildings, and the transport of flammable and 
hazardous materials by road and air. 
1. Exposure Limits 
The exposure limits that are generally used 
are the time-weighted average (TWA) values 
for a normal eight-hour workday (or 40-hour 
work week), to which nearly all workers can be 
exposed, day after day, without adverse effects. 
Excursions above the limit are allowed if com­
pensated by for excursions below the limit 
(Crowl and Louvar 1990). The rotation of per­
sonnel and the seasonal and periodic nature 
of many winery operations can sometimes pro­
vide variances to these requirements. 
2. Flammability Limits of Vapors 
The flammability limits of a vapor are the 
limits of the range of vapor compositions for 
564 which it is flammable. There is no combustion 
of the vapor below the lower flammability limit 
(LFL) or above the upper flammability limit 
(UFL). Alternative terms for these limits that 
are used by some agencies are the lower and 
upper explosive limits (LEL and UEL, respec­
tively). 
Table E-1. Time weighted average exposure limits 
Threshold limit values 
Compound (ppm vapor) (mg/m 3 25°C) 
Acetaldehyde 10 180 
Acetic acid 10 25 
Ammonia 25 18 
Carbon dioxide 5000 9000 
Ethyl acetate 400 1400 
Ethyl alcohol 1000 1900 
Ethyl mercaptan 0.5 
Gasoline 300 900 
Hydrogen sulfide 10 14 
Isoamyl acetate 100 525 
Isoamyl alcohol 100 360 
Methyl mercaptan 0.5 I 
Sulfur dioxide 2 5 Appendix E 565 
Table E-2. Flammability limits, density and sensory threshold of selected vapors 
Compound 
Ammonia 
Sulfur Dioxide 
Ethanol 
Benzene 
Toluene Flammability limits' 
(% v/v) 
Lower Upper 
15.5 27.0 
nonflammable 
3.28 18.95 
1.3 7.9 
1.2 7.1 
• In air (Crowl and Louvar 1990). 
Table E-3. Flash points of ethanol solutions and 
selected solvents. 
Liquid Flash point DC (F) 
wine (% vol/vol EtOH) Literature" 
(10%) 45.6 (114.0) 
(12%) 43.8 (11 0.8) 
(14%) 41.8 (107.2) 
(20%) 36.0 (96.8) 
(40%) nla 
Ethanol 12.8 (55.0)< 
Benzene -ILl (12.0)< 
Toluene 5.0 (40.0)< 
"Interpolated from data of Wine Institute 1979. 
bBoulton (1991). 
<Crowl and Louvar (1990). 
3. Flash Points of Liquids Predictedb 
49.0 (120.2) 
46.1 (115.0) 
43.7 (110.7) 
38.1 (100.6) 
26.6 (79.9) 
The flash point, often abbreviated simply as 
FP, is the lowest temperature at which a liquid 
gives off an ignitable mixture in air. At the 
flash point, the vapor will burn, but only briefly 
since insufficient vapor is produced to main­
tain combustion. A somewhat arbitrary choice 
of lOO°F (37.8°C) has been chosen by a num­
ber of agencies as the reference temperature 
for determining the flammability classifica­
tions for many liquids. Based on this criterion, Relative vapor 
density 
(air = 1.0) 
0.59 
2.2 
1.59 
2.70 
3.19 
80 r--------, 60 
70 
Q 60 
~ 50 
~ u. 
30 
20 0 
o 10 20 30 40 50 
Ethanol Content (%vlv) Sensory 
Threshold 
(ppm vapor) 
100 
10 
nla 
nla 
nla 
• Flash 
Point 
• Vapo"­
Content 
Flarrmable 
Limit (lFU 
FIg. E-1. The flash point and vapor concentration of 
ethanol solutions. 
table wines are not flammable in that their 
flash points are above 37.8°C, while fortified 
wines and spirits are. A more complete rela­
tionship for the flash point as a function of 
ethanol content is shown in Figure E-1. 
BOULTON, R. B. 1991. Unpublished calculations. 
CROWL, D. A., AND J. F. LOUVAR 1990. Chemical 
Process Safety: Fundamentals with Applications. En­
glewood Cliffs, I\ij: Prentice Hall. APPENDIX F 
MEDIA 
Unless otherwise indicated, pH adjustments 
are made either with solutions of KOH or 
H3P0 4• See main text for specific applications 
and literature references. 
Acetate agar: 9.8% potassium acetate, 2.5% 
yeast extract, 1.0% glucose, adjust to pH 8.4 
with NaOH, 15% agar. 
Acid Plates (for some acetic acid bacteria): 
0.5% yeast extract, 2% glucose, 0.5% KH2P04, 
2% agar. Acidify autoclaved, cooled molten 
medium with 0.1 mL concentrated HC1 per 
100 mL (to give a final pH of about 4). 
AR (apple Rogosa broth): 2% tryptone, 
0.5% yeast extract, 0.5% peptone, 0.5% glu­
cose, 0.005% Tween 80 (added as a 5% solu­
tion) made up in 20% apple juice, adjust to 
pH5.5. 
ARA agar (apple Rogosa with Acti-dione): 
AR broth with 1 mg/lOO mL Acti-dione®! 
(cycloheximide), 2% agar. 
Arginine broth: AR containing 2% glucose 
(rather than 0.5%) plus 0.6% L-arginine. 
Bacillus sporulation broth: 8% nutrient 
broth (Difco Laboratories 0003-01), 5 mg% 
MnS0 4·H20. 
CaC0 3-Ethanol Agar: 0.5% yeast extract, 
2% agar, and 2% Precipitated CaC0 3 (3% 
ethanol added to autoclaved, cooled molten 
medium 2). 
CaC0 3-wort agar: To Wagar add 2% Pre­
cipitated CaC0 3. 
566 CaC0 3-YM agar: To YM agar add 2% 
Precipitated CaC0 3. 
Cornmeal agar: 1.7% cornmeal agar (Difco 
Laboratories 0386-02). 
Frateur agar: 1 % yeast extract (adjust to pH 
6-7), 2% agar, and 2% Precipitated CaC0 3 
(20 mL of 95% ethanol added to autoclaved, 
molten agar2). 
Fructose broth: AR broth with 2% fructose. 
Glycerol broth: 2% glycerol and 0.5% yeast 
extract. 
Gorodkowa agar3: 0.1 % glucose, 1.0% pep­
tone, 0.5% NaCL, 2% agar. 
GYC agar: 5% glucose, 1 % yeast extract 
(adjust to pH 4.5), 3% Precipitated CaC0 3, 
and 3.0% agar 2. 
HOAC agar3: 10% glucose, 1 % tryptone, 
2% yeast extract, 2% agar (add 1 % glacial 
acetic acid to autoclaved, cooled molten 
medium). 
MYP (Mannitol) agar: 5% yeast extract, 2.5% 
mannitol, 3% peptone, 2.5% agar. 
Methylene Blue Stain: 0.4% methylene blue, 
10% ethanol (95%), 0.4 M KH 2P0 4• 
Modified Carr Medium: 30% yeast extract, 
20% ethanol, 20% agar. 
Sorbate-Ethanol agar: Wagar plus 0.3% 
KSorbate, 10% ethanol. 
V-8 agar: 350 mL V-8 juice, 5 g Baker's yeast 
cake, 350 mL H20, 14 g agar. 
W agar 3 (wort): 10% wort (e.g., Fleis-ehmann's Diamalt, often clarified by being 
heated to boiling and roughly filtered), 0.3% 
yeast extract, 0.5% peptone, 2% agar. 
W+ agar (wort with Acti-dione): WAgar 
plus 1 mg/lOO mL Acti-dione® (cyclohexi­
mide)!. 
WLD (W L differential agar): Difco Labora­
tories (0425-17) and BBL (11816); same as 
WLN with Acti-dione! (2 mg/L). Appendix F 567 
WLN (W L nutrient agar}: Difco Laborato­
ries (0424-01) and BBL (11818); already con­
tains agar and a pH indicator. 
YM: agar: 0.3% yeast extract, 0.3% malt 
extract, 0.5% peptone, 1.0% glucose, 2% agar. 
YM:+ agar: YM: Agar plus 1 mg/lOO mL 
Acti-dione (cycloheximide)!. 
lActi-dione® (cycloheximide) Sigma Chemical Company (C-6255). Amounts added are twice those given above, since 
approximately one-half of its activity is lost during autoclaving. 
2 Solid media with CaC0 3 need to be vigorously swirled in the cooled molten state immediately before being poured 
in order to resuspend the precipitate. 
30f ten used as yeast sporulation media. APPENDIX G 
CATALASE TEST 
AEROBIC VS ANAEROBIC BACTERIA 
The catalase test is used to determine whether 
the bacteria in question are in the broad sense 
"aerobes" or "anaerobes:" aerobes are cata­
lase-positive, and anaerobes are catalase-nega­
tive. For wine-related bacteria, the catalase­
positive organisms are bacilli and acetic acid 
bacteria (Chapter 9). These are considered to 
be obligate aerobes requiring the presence of 
molecular oxygen for abundant growth. How­
ever, limited growth may also occur under 
conditions of low oxygen concentration, per­
haps depending upon the redox potential. For 
example, bacillus spoilage has been found in 
bottled wines (Chapter 9). The wine-related 
catalase-negative bacteria include only lactic 
acid bacteria (Chapter 6). They are facultative 
anaerobes, not inhibited by atmospheric 
molecular oxygen, and generally growing as 
well as surface colonies as in submerged cul­
tures. The lactic acid bacteria are mi­
croaerophic (Chapter 6) and growth in "stab 
cultures" often is stronger in the stab a few 
mm below the surface-although a small mass 
568 of growth in characteristically also seen at the 
surface. 
SIGNIFICANCE 
Molecular oxygen is toxic to all bacteria, if the 
concentration is high enough, because of for­
mation from it of hydrogen peroxide (H202), 
which is toxic, and of small quantities of the 
free radical, superoxide (On, which is even 
more toxic. The obligate aerobic bacteria uti­
lize °2, but are protected from its toxicity by 
containing the enzyme superoxide dismutase. 
The latter prevents accumulation of superox­
ide by catalyzing the reaction of it with pro­
tons to produce 02 and H202: 
20,- + 2H+ ........... ---.. ------------------) ° + H ° 2 superoxide dismutase 2 2 2 
All aerobic organisms contain this enzyme. 
Most of the aerobic bacteria also produce cata­
lase, which decomposes H202 to 02 and 
water: 
2H n -------------) 2H 0+0, 2 2 catalase 2 2 The lactic acid bacteria contain superoxide 
dismutase, but are catalase-negative. They pro­
tect themselves from the toxic effects of H202 
coming from 02 by the use of their peroxidase 
enzymes. These enzymes reduce H202 to wa­
ter, in the course of oxidation of organic com­
pounds. 
The obligate anaerobes, clostridia, for ex­
ample (not found in wine), do not have super­
oxide dismutase. 
PROCEDURE 
Apply a loop of pure and freshly grown bacte­
rial culture to a drop of 3% H202 (a fresh 
ten-fold dilution of a commercial 30% solu­
tion) onto a microscope slide. Within a few 
seconds organisms which are catalase-positive 
will show bubbling or foaming. Yeast can be 
used as a positive control. The use of a hand­
lens may be of assistance in the evaluation in 
some cases, or the use of either a very dark or 
a very light surface as background. The H202 
can be added directly to a colony on solid Appendix G 569 
nutrient medium, but of course all bacteria 
coming in contact with the H 202 will be killed. 
It should be noted that a hot loop in HZ02 
will also give some bubbling. For catalase­
negative organisms, not only will there be no 
bubble formation, but the form of the mass of 
bacterial material will remain entire, more-or­
less intact, and not become visibly frayed-as 
happens, along with the foaming, with cata­
lase-positive organisms. 
EXCEPTIONS 
Some strains of Acetobacter pasteunanus are 
catalase-negative. Confirmation of these cata­
lase-negative bacteria as (aerobic) acetic acid 
bacteria can be obtained by growth on, and 
clearing of, various calcium carbonate media 
(Chapter 9). Lactic acid bacteria are some­
times found to be catalase-positive when culti­
vated on nutritionally deficient media. The 
procedures for identification of lactic acid 
bacteria given in Chapter 6 obviate this possi­
bility. APPENDIX H 
MICROSCOPIC CELL COUNTING 
A very useful skill for the winemaker is profi­
ciency with the microscope for quick determi­
nation of the presence or population of yeast 
or bacteria in liquid suspensions. This tech­
nique is especially helpful in preparation of 
yeast starter cultures for sparkling wine fer­
mentation and of bacteria starter cultures for 
malolactic fermentation. In these cases, unlike 
the preparation of yeast starter cultures for 
regular vinification fermentations, there are 
few macroscopic clues-such as obvious tur­
bidity and foaming-to indicate the maturity 
of the culture. Microscopic cell counting is 
also useful as a preliminary step for making 
colony counts-where the sample is spread on 
a nutrient agar plant and incubated (Chapter 
9); the microscopic examination indicates the 
number of aseptic, serial dilutions required to 
give the proper number of cells per plate. 
Furthermore, cell counting skill is also useful 
in the evaluation of incipient microbiological 
spoilage of stored wines. Cell counts obtained 
over various times showing static or decreasing 
cell concentrations probably indicate a harm­
less situation. However, the opposite condi­
tion, of increasing cell counts with time, indi-
570 cates that special attention and further treat­
ment should be applied promptly to the stored 
wine. The microscopic cell counting tech­
nique has its limitations, especially in the 
spoilage situations just mentioned, in that low 
concentrations « 104 cell/mL) cannot be 
evaluated with precision. In these instances, 
the winemaker must rely on viable counts, 
either as spread plates (Chapter 9), or as used 
in the quality control procedure for sterile 
bottling (Chapter 11). These methods require 
several days' incubation before results are ob­
tained. 
Two kinds of counting chambers are used 
for the microscopic procedure. Both of the 
chambers have the same cell counting grid of 
a "large" square, measuring 1.0 mm per side, 
divided into 25 "medium" squares, and each 
of the latter further subdivided into 16 "tiny" 
squares (Figure H-I). The grids have raised 
borders, on which a cover glass is placed, and 
which sets the height of the chamber, that is, 
the volume of liquid defined by the grid. The 
main difference between the two chambers is 
that the height for Levy-Hausser is 0.1 mm, 
while that for the Petroff-Hausser is 0.02 mm. Thus, the decision on which chamber to use is 
partly determined by the concentration of the 
cells: the Levy chamber generally used for 
lower suspensions, and the Petroff for higher 
suspensions. Nominally, this limits the Levy 
chamber to the counting of yeast and the 
Petroff chamber to the counting of bacteria. 
The factor used for calculation of cell concen­
tration of the suspension being measured is 
104 times the number of cells found in the 
"large" square for the Levy-Hausser, and 
2x107 times the number of cells found in a 
"tiny" square of the Petroff-Hausser. Gener­
ally the "hi-<iry" microscopic objective lens 
(40x) is used with the Levy-Hausser, and the 
oil-immersion objective (lOOx) for the Petroff. 
Another feature of the Petroff-Hausser is that 
the chamber itself is thin enough to allow for 
microscopic viewing with oil-immersion and 
""" ~ 
100Xf ield ~ , ............ 
~ r---J 
r---. ......... 
If {' ">10..\ , I 
I --
{ 
1 
\ 
1\ 
" 
..... Appendix H 571 
phase-contrast optics. This is an important fea­
ture for the counting of lactic acid bacteria. 
Some Levy-Hausser chambers are also manu­
factured for use with phase-contrast optics. 
Concerning the coverslips used for the 
chambers, at the dimensions employed the 
surface tension of the water, or wine, is not 
inconsequential. There will be a natural bow­
ing of a thin slip, which decreases the volume 
of the fluid in the chamber. To overcome this, 
special thick coverslips can be used for the 
Levy-Hausser, although attention must be paid 
to the objective lens being used to assure that 
its depth of focus is great enough to penetrate 
below the lower surface of this thicker cover 
slip. For the Petroff-Hausser, regular, thin cov­
erslips are available, onto which are mounted 
rigid plastic frames, strong enough to over­
come the surface tension. (In supply catalogs, 
......... 
i"'" 
" , 40X field , , 
~ 
~ 
I'" J 
.... , 
J 
I 
""f-. -~ ............ '\ 
./ <. 
'" -""" 1 6X field 
1 mm x 1 mm = 1 "large" square or 
25 "medium-sized" squares or 400 "tiny" squares 
Fig. H-I. Grid dimensions of Hausser counting chambers. 572 Appendix H 
the main use of the Levy-Hausser chambers.) 
In operation, the coverslip is placed over 
the grid and a drop of the cell suspension 
(thoroughly mixed) is added by means of a 
pasteur pipette to one edge of the coverslip. 
Capillary action will pull the liquid into and 
fill the chamber. If the coverslip is bumped or 
otherwise disturbed such that too much liquid 
enters the chamber, it is advised to start over. 
The weight of the coverslip is insufficient to 
displace excess liquid from the grid. It is help­
ful as a preliminary step to use the low-power 
objective to locate the grid of a dry, unloaded 
chamber and to note the microscope stage 
setting in order to return the chamber to the 
same position after the sample is loaded. The 
"medium" squares are double-lined (some­
times triple-lined), which aids in their location 
(Figure H-I). 
The number of squares, and the number of 
cells to be counted is dependent upon the 
concentration of the sample. If possible, at 
least 100 cells should be counted, to give at 
least a three-digit number, and enough 
squares, widely distributed, to get a good rep­
resentation of the total grid. The Levy-Hausser 
has two grids, and the cells in each ought to 
be counted. For highest precision, the cham­
bers should be loaded several times. A conven­
tion is employed for cells resting on lines: cells 
touching the borders of the top or right side 
of the square being viewed are included in the 
enumeration, while those touching the bottom 
or left borders are excluded. For yeast, when 
the number of cfu's (colony forming units) is 
desired, individual and budding cells alike are 
counted as a single unit. For bacteria, a chain 
of cells is taken as a single CFU. In both cases, 
where an estimation of the biomass, rather 
than CFU s, is desired, for yeast, one should 
assess whether a budding cell is one or two 
units, or something in between; and for bacte­
ria, assess the approximate proportion of the 
bacterial chains as singles, doublets, triplets, 
etc. One should be consistent and record ob­
servations and assumptions carefully. 
For yeast a rough indication of the viability of the culture can also be obtained microscop­
ically. For this, a mixture is made of approxi­
mately 1:1 of the culture and a solution of 
methylene blue stain (Appendix F) (Fink and 
Kiihles 1933; Townsend and Lindgren 1953; 
Painting and Kirsop 1990). The mixing can be 
done directly on a microscope slide. The vi­
able cells will take up the stain and reduce it 
to its colorless form, giving an unstained cell, 
whereas the dead cells will take up the stain 
without reduction, giving a blue cell. The ter­
minology here is somewhat uncertain. Viability 
in this case is dependent of a cell's capacity to 
ferment, to carry out some portion of glycoly­
sis. The term may not exactly coincide with 
capability of a cell to reproduce and form a 
colony when placed on nutrient medium. Also, 
this test must be done on fresh cells, not on 
samples that have been stored. 
Difficulties in obtaining precise cell counts 
often come from streaming of the cells across 
the field of view, and, especially for bacteria, 
from Brownian motion. The former is best 
handled by patience, allowing the microscope 
to sit undisturbed for several minutes. The 
latter can be somewhat lessened by suspension 
of the bacteria in a solution of 4% PVA (poly­
vinyl alcohol). (Aqueous PVA is very suscepti­
ble to mold. It should be prepared as needed 
or stored at refrigerator temperature for only 
short periods.) 
REFERENCES 
FINK, H., AND R. KUHLES. 1933. "Beitrage zur Meth­
yleneblaufarbung der Hefezellen und Studien 
iiber die Permeabilitat der Hefezellmembran. II. 
Mitteilung. Eine verbessert Fiirbefliissigkeit zur 
Erkennung von toten Hefezellen." Hoppe-Seyler 
z. Physiol. Chern. 218:65-66. 
PAINTING, K., AND B. KiRSOP. 1990. "A quick method 
for estimating the percentage of viable cells in a 
yeast population, using methylene blue staining." 
World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 6:236-237. 
TOWNSEND, G. F., AND C. C. LINDGREN. 1953. "Struc­
tures in the yeast cell revealed in wet mounts." 
Cytologia 18: 183.201. APPENDIX I 
ADDRESSES OF MANUFACTURERS OF 
WINERY EQUIPMENT! 
Abcor (see Koch Membranes Systems) 
Alfa-Laval, P.O. Box 500,5-14700 Tumba, Swe­
den 
Amos Maschinenfabrik GmbH, Postfach 1160, 
D-74081 Heilbronn, Germany 
APV-Crepaco, 395 Fillmore Avenue, Tona­
wonda, NY 14150, USA 
Bird Machine Co., Rucaduc Road, South 
Walpole, MA 02071, USA 
Blachere & Cie.,2 4 rue Levat, 34 Montpellier, 
France 
Bucher (see Bucher-CMMC) 
Bucher-CMMC, F-49290 Chalonnes sur Loire, 
France 
Ceraflo (see Norton Co.) 
Cherry-Burrel, P.O. Box 35600, Louisville, KY 
40232, USA 
Contherm (see Tetra Laval Food) 
Coq2 (see Bucher-CMMC) 
Cellulo Co., 124 M Street, Fresno, CA 93721, 
USA Celite Corp., P.O. Box 519, Lompoc, CA 93438-
0519, USA 
Cuno Inc., 400 Research Parkway, Meriden, CT 
06450, USA 
DDS (De Danske Sukkerfabrikker), P.O. Box 149, 
DK-4900 Nakskov, Denmark 
Demoisy, B.P. 135, F-21204 Beaune, France 
Diemme Costruzioni Enolmeccaniche SPA, 
Lugo, Italy 
DOff-Oliver Inc., 77 Havemeyer Lane, Stamford, 
CT 06904, USA 
E. I. Du Pont Nemours & Co., 1007 Market 
Street, Wilmington, DE 19898, USA 
Durco (Duriron Co.), 9542 Hardpan Road, An­
gola, NY 14006, USA 
Eagle Picher Industries, 580 Walnut Street, 
Cincinnati, OH 45202, USA 
Egretier, D.F 301, Narbonne, France 
Enopompe snc, Via 25 Aprile, 42015 Correggio­
RE, Italy 
Fristam Pumps Inc., P.O. Box 620065, Middle-
1 This list is limited to the principal offices of manufacturers of widely distributed products for winemaking that have 
been mentioned in this book. It does not include manufacturers of bottling and packaging equipment due to the 
limited coverage of these topics. This is not a complete list and does not attempt to provide names of local agents or 
representatives. In the United States there are compilations of such in the annual directories of several industry 
magazines such as Practical Winery, Vineyard & Winery Management and Wines & Vines. There is no attempt to 
endorse or otherwise indicate preference for these products. 
20f historical interest, limited involvement at present or no longer in business. 
573 574 Appendix I 
ton, WI 53562-0065, USA 
Gasquet Soc., 80 rue Reully, F-7500 Paris, France 
Graham Manufacturing Co., 20 Florence Av­
enue, Batavia, NY 14020, USA 
Great Lakes Corp., 2500 Irving Park Road, 
Chicago, IL 60618, USA 
Guth KG., Postfach 1309, D-76829 Landau, Ger­
many 
Healdsburg Machine Company, 452 Healdsburg 
Avenue, Healdsburg, CA 95448, USA 
Hoechst Celanese, 13800 South Lakes Drive, 
Charlotte, NC 28273, USA 
Howard Rotavator CO.,2 P.O. Box 100, Harvard, 
IL 60033, USA 
IMECA, Zone industrielle, B.P. 94, F-34800 Cler­
mont-I'Herault, France 
lIT Fluid Technology Corp., P.O. Box 2158, 
Costa Mesa, CA 92628-2158, USA 
Jabsco (see lIT Fluid Technology Corp.) 
Johnston Bar Screen (see Wheelabrator Eng. Sys­
tems) 
KLR, 350 Morris Street, Suite E, Sebastapol, CA 
95472, USA 
Koch Membrane Systems (Romicon), 850 Main 
Street, Wilmington, MA 01887-3388, USA 
Luigi Mori snc, Via B. Naldini, 23, 50028 Tavar-
nelle val di Pesa, Italy 
Mabille 2 
MacKenzie 2 
Manville (see Celite Corp) 
Manzini (see Teodoro Manzini) 
Marzola 2 
Membrana (Ghia), 7070 Commerce Circle, 
Pleasanton, CA 94566, USA 
Memcor (Memtec), Oakes Road, Old Toongab­
bie, NSW 2146, Australia 
Millipore Corp., 80 Ashby Rd, Bedford, MA 
01730, USA 
Moyno (see Robbins Myers) 
Mori (see Luigi Mori) 
Mott Metallugical Corp., Farmington Industrial 
Park, Farmington, CT 06032, USA 
Neztsch Inc, 119 Pickering Way, Exton, PA 
19341-1393, USA 
Norton Co., 1 New Bond Street, Worcester, MA 
01601, USA 
Novo Ferment Ltd., Vogesenstrasse 132, CH-4056 
Basle, Switzerland 
Padovan spa, 3lO15 Conegliano, Veneto, Italy 
Pall Corp., Rte 281, Cortland, NY 13045, USA 
PCI (Patterson Candy Intl.), Laverstoke Mill, 
Whitchurch, Hampshire RG 287NR, U.K. Paul Mueller Co., P.O. Box 828, Springfield, MO 
65801, USA 
Pera SA,2 F-345lO Florensac Herault, France 
Ragazini Off. Mecc. srl, Via Volta, 8, 48018 
Faenza-RA, Italy 
Rhone Poulenc Chemie, 21 rue Jean Goujan, 
F-25360 Paris, France 
Robbins Myers, P.O. Box 960, Springfiled, OH 
45501, USA 
Rupp (see Warren Rupp) 
Santa Rosa Stainless Steel, P.O. Box 518, Santa 
Rosa, CA 95402, USA 
Sartorius Corp., 140 Wilbur Place, Bohemia, NY 
11716, USA 
Scott Laboratories, P.O.Box 4559, Petaluma, CA 
94955-4559, USA 
SFEC (Soc. Fabr. d'Elements Catalytiques), B.P. 
F-33-84599 Bollene, France 
Seitz Werke GmbH, Postfach 889, D-55543 Bad 
Kreuznach,Germany 
Schenk Filterbau GmbH, Bettringer Strasse 42, 
D-73550 Waldstetten, Germany 
Teodoro Manzini srl, Via Enrico Fermi, 8, 42015 
Correggio-RE, Italy 
Tri-Clover Inc., 9201 Wilmont Road, Kenosha, 
WI 53140, USA 
Valley Foundry Machine Works,2 25lO So. East 
Avenue, Fresno, CA 93717, USA 
Vaslin (see Bucher-CMMC) 
Velo spa, Via Piave, 55 Fraz. Caselle, 3lO30 Altiv­
ole-TV, Italy 
Vinipal, Rua Oliva Teles 251, Praia da Granja, 
4405, Portugal 
Warren Rupp, P.O. Box 1568, Mansfield, OH 
44901, USA 
Waukesha Foundry, 1300 Lincoln Avenue, 
Waukehsa, WI 53186, USA 
Wedge Wire Co., P.O. Box 157, Wellington OH 
44090, USA 
Westec Winery Equipment, P.O. Box 338, 
Healdsburg, CA 95448 
Westfalia Separator AG, D-59302 Oelde, Ger­
many 
Wheelabrator Eng. Systems, P.O. Box 64118, St. 
Paul, MI 55164, USA 
Wilden Pumps, 22069 Van Buren Street, Colton, 
CA 92324, USA 
Willmes Maschinenbau KG, Postfach 143, D-
64625 Bensheim, Germany 
Winery Systems Corp.2 
York Machine Works, 1401 Charter Oak Avenue, 
St. Helena, CA 94574, USA GLOSSARY 
Definitions given are usually specific wine-re­
lated meanings. General dictionaries should 
be consulted as well. 
Acetification: The oxidative conversion of 
wine to vinegar, ethanol to acetic acid. An 
aerobic fermentation by Acetobacter. 
Acidity: Titrable or titratable acidity is that 
determined by quantitative titration with al­
kali. Usually it is expressed in grams of 
tartaric acid per liter in wines. Older French 
literature used giL as H2S0 4 and % tar­
taric or g/lOOmL has been common. Total 
acidity has been used as the same value to 
include fixed and volatile acidity. This can 
be misleading in that a portion of the tar­
taric acid (and others) is present as neutral­
ized anions and therefore not directly titra­
ble. Volatile acidity, as acetic acid, is very 
low in wines unless activity of vinegar bacte­
ria has been appreciable. (See al50 pH.) 
Aging: The general time-related improve­
ment of wines specifically after bottling, but 
sometimes applied to the whole period of 
wine storage after fermentation. (See also 
Maturation.) 
Alternative products: Products that, when 
produced, remove an equivalent portion of 
wine, e.g., vinegar or juice concentrate. 
Amelioration: A specific meaning in wine­
making applies especially to must better­
ment, particularly from fruits other than 
wine grapes. It involves lowering of exces­
sive acid, usually by dilution with water, and increasing the sugar content so that palat­
able and stable wines result. (See also Chap­
talization.) 
American Society for Enology and Viticulture 
(ASEV): Headquartered in Davis, Califor­
nia, this organization is more international 
than the name implies having sizable groups 
of members in Japan and elsewhere. In ad­
dition to activities including an annual 
meeting, they publish the American Journal 
of Enology and Viticulture (AJEV), undoubt­
edly the most important reviewed scientific 
and technical journal of the field in English 
and arguably in the world regardless oflan­
guage. 
Aroma: The odors in wines_related to the 
grape from which they were made as distin­
guished from process and aging odors. (See 
also Bouquet.> 
Azeotrope: A combination of two or more 
substances that boil at a constant and usu­
ally lower temperature than the compo­
nents. Ethanol and water form an azeotrope 
which, depending on atmospheric pressure, 
boils at 25.6°C rather than 26.8°C for pure 
ethanol. The azeotrope is 95.5% by weight 
ethanol ( 4.5% water) and purer ethanol 
cannot be made by simple distillation. 
Bacteriophage: A virus that affects bacteria. 
Barrel: Sometimes used too generally, a bar­
rel is an oaken liquid container with a dou­
ble-arched truncated ellipsoid shape made 
liquid tight by appropriate taper of side units 
575 576 Glossary 
(staves) and ends (heads) wedged together 
by driven metal hoops. The usual sizes for 
wine, regardless of region, have been in the 
range of 190 to 230 L, more or less. Histori­
cally, other sizes had special names (firkin, 
keg, hogshead, tun, etc.) and other shapes 
also (oval, upright, etc.). The use of the 
equivalent French term bamque is an affec­
tation. Barrels for other commodities had 
other standard sizes: beer, 31 gallons and 
bourbon whiskey, 50 gallons, for example. 
BATF (Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Fireanns): The U.S. federal agency which 
has been responsible for regulating and 
controlling all aspects of production, label­
ing, and marketing of wine and other alco­
holic beverages. A part of the Treasury De­
partment. 
Body: The mouth-filling characteristic of 
wines related to viscosity ranging from thin 
and watery to full and high-bodied. 
Bordeaux mixture: A fungicidal spray pre­
pared from copper sulfate and calcium hy­
droxide (slaked lime) in water. 
Bottle: A standard wine bottle contains 750 
mL of wine. Formerly, U.S. wine bottles 
were called fifths because they held 1/5 gal. 
or 757 mL. 
Bottle aging: Storage of wine in bottle or 
similar essentially anaerobic container and 
the effects (usually desirable) eventually 
produced. 
Bouquet: The odors in wines resulting from 
processing and aging as distinguished from 
the raw material's odors, e.g., fermentation 
or bottle bouquets. (See also Aroma.) 
Brandy: A high-content alcoholic beverage 
product or component distilled from grape 
WIne. 
Brix: Solution property equivalent to that of 
reference aqueous solutions of sucrose in 
grams per 100 grams of solution at 20°C. 
Usually measured by hydrometry (density) 
or in juices by refractometry. Balling first 
prepared tables, but Brix improved them 
and the term Balling is obsolete. Brix is nearly universal in the food industry, but 
Baume and Oechsle are convertible units 
used in other countries. The Brix in the 
past has tended to be termed degrees Brix, 
but this unnecessary and is not followed in 
other food industry practice. 
Byproduct: A product produced incidentally 
to winemaking not made from or diminish­
ing the yield of wine. Cream of tartar or 
grape seed oil are examples. (See also Alter­
native and Specialty products.) 
DC: Temperature in Celsius (or Centigrade) 
degrees. Water freezes at O°C and boils at 
lOO°e. 
Case: A standard wine case contains 12 bot­
tles, 750 mL each, and therefore a total of 9 
liters. 
Champagnes: Either sparkling (high-C0 2) 
wines from the Champagne district in 
France or (clearly designated) similar wines 
from elsewhere including the United States. 
The French argue for only the first defini­
tion and as a result terms such as Sekt in 
Germany and Cava in Spain have been sub­
stituted. 
Chaptalization: Term for the addition of 
sugar to musts before fermentation in order 
to obtain adequate alcohol in the wine. 
Regulated by laws in most countries, prohib­
ited in California, similar results may be 
permitted by adding grape concentrate or 
reserved sweet juice. Named for the French­
man popularizing it, Chaptal. 
Charmat process: Secondary fermentation of 
sparkling wine in large (bulk) tanks rather 
than individual bottles. Named for the 
French originator. 
Climate: The typical weather for a given 
place, usually large-scale areas. Climatic Re­
gions I-V: A system of characterizing and 
comparing vineyard regions and subregions 
based upon average heat summation. Meso­
climate: Local variations within a vineyard 
or among nearby vineyards which affect typ­
ical weather seen by grapevines, e.g., a sun­
facing slope versus a relatively shaded one. Microclimate: The weather as modified by 
very local conditions in and about a specific 
VIne. 
Clone: A new vine or a group of vines pro­
duced from a cutting of one parent vine 
and therefore genetically identical. By ex­
trapolation and with increasing chance for 
slight variation depending upon the num­
ber of transfers, the term may be used (mis­
used) for propagants from a group of vines 
representing a uniform varietal vineyard. 
Cold Duck: A nearly vanished recent faddish 
type of sparkling wine blended from red 
(often Concord in the United States) and 
white base wines and produced by the Char­
mat process. 
Concentrate: Concentrated grape juice, 
white unless otherwise stated, prepared by 
vacuum and low temperature for use in 
sweetening other food products including 
musts and wines. Rectified concentrate is a 
term being introduced from Europe with 
legalistic limitations involving further pro­
cessing to eliminate most characteristics 
other than sugar. 
Coolers: A blended beverage commonly 
about half wine and half dilute acidic solu­
tion or fruit juices and other flavorings os­
tensibly for hot-weather and lower-alcohol 
(6% or so) situations. Dwindling in impor­
tance. 
Cooperage: Winery containers generally. De­
rived from barrels and other wooden con­
tainers made by coopers. 
Cream of tartar: Potassium bitartrate, the 
predominant crystalline deposit forming in 
wine. Purified from wine tartar (argols), it is 
a byproduct useful in cooking. 
Crusher destemmer: Usually a single ma­
chine, but possibly two separate units, to 
remove the grape berries from their rachises 
and break them open for fermentation or 
juice removal. The objective is ordinarily 
complete removal of the cluster stems and 
100% opening of the berries with minimal 
grinding or solids dispersal into the fluid. Glossary 577 
Cuvee: The term (derived from French) 
for the particular blend of base wines to be 
used to make a sparkling wine. 
Decanting: Transfer of relatively clear wine 
(usually bottled wine) by pouring off leaving 
undisturbed sediments and crusts behind. 
(See also Racking.) 
Delle concept: Noting that high content of 
either sugar or alcohol prevented yeast 
growth and a combination of the two gave 
more microbial stability than the same con­
tent of either alone, Delle (a Russian) de­
vised a scheme of units to predict stability of 
sweet wines. The units are not very reliable, 
but the concept is important in explaining 
why table wines at relatively low alcohol 
content (Sauternes, for example) are stable 
if their sugar is high enough. The phe­
nomenon appears to result from stress on 
the yeast by either or both components. 
DMDC (Dimethyl dicarbonate): Supersedes 
DEPC (diethyl pyrocarbonate). Kills yeasts 
to sterilize wines. Decomposes sponta­
neously in aqueous solution to carbon diox­
ide and small amounts of methanol. 
Dry: The descriptor for a wine without fer­
mentable sugar and/or no detectable taste 
of sweetness from sugar. Commonly, less 
than 2 giL of reducing sugars. 
Dyer: Preferred English term for the French 
tientuner (same meaning) used here for a 
red grape that has red pulp and juice and 
not just red berry skin, as is usual. Such 
varieties are useful to make a very red wine 
for blending with wines undesirably weak in 
red color. 
Enology: The science and technology (and 
residual artful know-how) of making and 
processing wine in all of its complexity. The 
original spelling was oenology. 
Estate bottling: Various wordings and legal 
nuances are involved, but the intent is to 
indicate that the grapes were produced by 
or at minimum under the specific control of 
the ownership of the bottling winery. Pro-578 Glossary 
gressively less direct control is indicated by 
such terms as "produced and bottled by," 
"cellared and bottled by," or "bottled by." 
Ester: A type of chemical compound formed 
from an acid and an alcohol by the elimina­
tion of water or hydrolyzed back to its con­
stituent acid and alcohol by addition of the 
elements of water. The smallest major ester 
of interest in wines is the four-carbon ethyl 
acetate formed from acetic acid and ethyl 
alcohol. Organic esters of this type, espe­
cially those with about eight carbons, are 
attractively fruity in smell. 
Exp: The exponent of the natural logarithm 
base e: exp(2) is e2• 
Extract: Extract in wines is defined as the 
nonvolatile dissolved solids of the wine and 
ordinarily is expressed in Brix (see Brix). It 
is important to recognize that residual sugar 
contributes to extract and to pay attention 
to whether the values given are total extract 
or sugarfree extract. A high-extract dry wine 
is one that has had considerable pomace 
contact and also may have high glycerol 
from fermentation. 
"F: Fahrenheit temperature, water freezes at 
32°F and boils at 212°F. Replace with °C. 
(See also °C.) 
FAN (Free Amino Nitrogen): Amino acid ni­
trogen exclusive of proline (an imino acid), 
usable by yeasts, ammonia is not included. 
Fennenter: The agent for fermentation; one 
who or that which causes or conducts fer­
mentation. For examples "he is a fermenter 
of Cabernets" or "that yeast is a galactose 
fermenter." 
Fennentor: An apparatus for fermentation. 
"The wine was fermented in a stainless steel 
fermentor. " 
Fining: Clarification of wines or possibly 
musts by addition of agents, usually insolu­
ble or colloidal ones such as bentonite or 
gelatin, which combine with incipient haze 
formers and precipitate them and them­
selves from solution. Flavonoid: Natural CIS phenols formed with 
two benzene rings connected by a three­
carbon bridge. Includes anthocyanins, cate­
chins (flavan-3-0ls), flavonols, and con­
densed tannins in grapes and wines. They 
are responsible for the red colors, much of 
the brown colors, the astringency, and the 
known bitterness of wines. (See also Phenols') 
Flavor: The overall sensory character includ­
ing odors, tastes, and feelings such as astrin­
gency' body, or perhaps "texture." 
Flavored wines: Vermouths and Special Nat­
ural Wines are those that incorporate fla­
vors from other sources (natural) besides 
grapes. 
Fortification: (See WSA). 
Fractional blending: (See Solera System). 
Fusel oil: A distillation fraction from wine or 
its constituents in wines, primarily higher 
(more than two-, usually five-carbon) alco­
hols. (See also Higher Alcohols.) 
GAE (Gallic Acid Equivalent): Based upon 
phenol assay (usually by Folin-Ciocalteu 
reagent) with gallic acid as comparison stan­
dard usually in mg/L for wines or mg/kg 
for grapes. 
GRAS (Generally Recognized As Safe): A 
term introduced into food regulations to 
cover substances considered to have such 
long and widespread usage that further spe­
cific testing is superfluous and wasteful, su­
crose for example. 
Grafting: The operation of splicing a scion 
cutting to a rootstock to produce a single 
combined vine. 
Grape seed oil: Oil expressed or extracted 
from grape seeds. A good food, it resembles 
olive oil in composition. It can be a useful 
byproduct of winema king, but has been sel­
dom economic. 
Hard: The less desirable flavor impression of 
a red wine both bitter and tart and often 
tannic. The antonym of soft-a wine with­
out excess in these features. It mayor may 
not disappear with appropriate maturation and aging, but it should improve. Softer 
wines can, of course, also improve with age. 
Headspace: The gas volume, usually deliber­
ate, above the wine in a container including 
bottles, for example, "That wine was bot­
tled with a headspace of 5 mL, but with 10 
years of aging an ullage (see Ullage) of 50 
mL developed." 
Hectare: An are is 10 X 10 m or 100 square 
m. A hectare is therefore 100 X 100m = 
10,000 m2 or 2.47 acres. 
Hectoliter: One hundred liters. A common 
unit for wine processing tabulations in Eu­
rope equal to 26.4 u.S. gallons. We prefer 
kiloliters 00 hectoliters) for two major rea­
sons: more directly related to metric tons 
and easier to visualize in relation to old 
practices in the U.S. wine industry Obs 11000 
gal.). (See also Kiloliter.) 
HPLC (High Performance Liquid Chromatog­
raphy): A modern instrumental technique 
to separate and quantitate compounds pre­
sent in complex solutions such as wines. 
CLC, gas-liquid chromatography, is a sepa­
rate but analogous procedure limited to 
volatile compounds. 
HTST (High-Temperature Short-Time): Pas­
teurization treatments. 
Higher alcohols: Isoamyl alcohol and rela­
tives with more than two carbons produced 
by fermentation and contributing to heavy, 
fusely tastes, especially in WSA wines and 
brandies (not always undesirable flavors at 
low levels). (See also Fusel oil.) 
Kiloliter: One thousand liters or one m3 (a 
stere). Although hectoliters (1/10 kL) are 
most commonly used in Europe, kL is pre­
ferred in America and one m3 is the SI unit 
of volume. It is easier to visualize (I m3) and 
is more mentally compatible with the obso­
lete usage of Ib/l000 gal. One U.S. gallon 
= 3.785 L; 1 kL = 264.2 gal.; 1 Ib/l000 
gal. = 120 g/kL. 
Laccase: Phenol-oxidizing enzymes not pre­
sent unless produced in grapes by mold Glossary 579 
infection, but important in browning and 
related reactions of moldy grapes. Different 
and usually wider substrate specificity than 
grape PPO (See also PPO.) 
Lactic acid bacteria: Those bacteria capable 
of producing lactic acid (not present from 
grapes or yeasts) in wines, usually by malo­
lactic fermentation. (See also Malolactic Fer­
mentation.) 
Lees: Sediments (yeast, tartrates, seeds, fin­
ing agents, etc.) settled to the bottom of 
wine containers. 
Maceration: Steeping crushed grapes before 
drawing off juice or young wines. Alterna­
tive expressions include skin contact, po­
mace fermentation, etc. 
Maceration, carbonic: Holding whole grape 
clusters in a closed container in an atmo­
sphere of carbon dioxide (possibly self-gen­
erated by respiration) so that they metabo­
lize some of their sugar anaerobically. This 
is properly done at fairly warm temperature 
and for sufficient time, at least several days, 
so that a special flavor and light tannin plus 
vivid color and fruity flavor result in the 
wine made from the pressed juice. The wines 
so produced are termed nouveau style by 
analogy to Beaujolais nouveau. 
Maderization: A rather confusing term prob­
ably better dropped in favor of oxidation 
or I and heated. It derives from the chemi­
cal and sensory characters of Madeira-type 
wines that are both oxidized and baked. It is 
not related to wood-extract flavors as Span­
ish speakers might assume. 
Malolactic fermentation: The conversion by 
specific bacteria of malic acid into lactic 
acid with associated reduction in total acid­
ity and other flavor changes. 
Marc: See Pomace. 
Maturation: The time-related improvement 
of wines before bottling, especially bulk 
maturation in oak containers. Mter matura­
tion appropriate to the type and style, a 
wine is considered mature, ready, and ripe 
to bottle. 580 Glossary 
Mildews: Filamentous fungi (molds) includ­
ing downy mildew and powdery mildew that 
cause disease on grape vines or others that 
may cause unsightly growths on winery walls, 
etc. Obligate aerobes, they can not grow in 
properly stored wine. 
MOG (Material Other than Grapes): Con­
taminants such as leaves in harvested grapes. 
Must: The grape material ready to be fer­
mented. Whole must is usually crushed but 
destemmed grapes and must pumps are de­
signed to handle this mash without appre­
ciable grinding. When the pomace has been 
removed, the resultant juice, whether fur­
ther clarified or not, can be called must if it 
is to be fermented or further fermented, 
but the general term must usually implies 
whole must, and juice or young wine are the 
terms preferred for certain clarity, if they 
are meant. 
Mute: Pronounced "mutay," this is grape 
juice prevented from fermentation, often by 
high additions of S02 or other means, in­
tended for later use in making wines. An 
adopted French term. 
Noble rot: The term for desired infection of 
wine grapes by Botrytis cinerea under circum­
stances of weather and season such that a 
shriveled berry results with high sugar con­
tent suitable for making sweet table wines 
such as Sauternes or Trockenbeerenausle­
sen. 
OIV (The Office International de la Vigne et 
du Vin): Based in Paris, performs many 
useful functions in gathering worldwide 
grape and wine statistics, codifying regula­
tions and analytical procedures, etc. It pub­
lishes their Bulletin (BOIV), which also in­
cludes useful briefs on other publications. 
Overcropped: The condition of a vine carry­
ing so much crop load that it is unable to 
produce enough photosynthesis to properly 
mature the fruit. Ordinarily indicated by 
inadequate sugar development and failure 
to ripen properly. Pectin: Complex polysaccharides involving 
galacturonic acid, its methyl ester, and other 
sugar derivatives. They contribute to viscos­
ity and sometimes hazes of musts and wines. 
Shortened and solubilized by pectinase en­
zymes. 
Pedicel: The small cap stem attaching each 
grape berry to the rachis. 
Peptides: Short polymers of amino acids, 
pieces (polypeptides longer) of proteins. (See 
also Proteins.) 
pH: An acidity scale. The negative of the 
logarithm of the molar hydrogen ion con­
centration in a solution such as wine or 
must. At pH 7.0 the solution is neutral, 
below it is increasingly acidic and tart to a 
minimum of zero, and above increasingly 
alkaline to a maximum of 14. For wine 
grape juices and wines, 3.2-3.8 is generally 
to be expected, with lower than that rela­
tively underripe and sour or above overripe 
and flat-tasting. Since pH is an exponential 
(base 10) function, relatively small numeri­
cal differences in pH correlate with large 
reactivity and flavor differences. 
Phage: (see Bacteriophage) 
Phenols: Chemical compounds consisting of 
a benzene ring with at least one hydroxyl 
group. Those naturally occurring in plants 
are termed polyphenols and usually have at 
least two hydroxyl groups, usually vicinal 
(side by side). The group includes phenolic 
acids, cinnamates, flavonoids, and tannins 
in grapes and wines. 
Phylloxera: A serious grape insect pest native 
to Eastern North America which, when in­
troduced to European grape vines, causes 
vineyard decline and death. Dactylasphaera 
vitifoliae (formerly called Phylloxera vitifoliae 
or P. vastatrix) has a complicated life cycle, 
including a flying form causing leaf galls on 
resistant grape species in humid climates 
and the universal and more devastating 
small yellow root louse forms. Vitis species 
native to the endemic areas for this pest are 
resistant and can be used as rootstocks or breeding stock for resistance. Other species 
of phylloxera specifically attack other plants, 
oak, for example. 
Pomace: The solids (grape skins and seeds 
especially) left after wine or juice is drained 
and pressed from the whole must or young 
wine. Marc and press cake are essentially 
the same. Pronounced "pumice," pomace 
may be sweet (unfermented) or dry (fer­
mented) and may be the source of recover­
able alcohol or other byproducts as well as a 
waste disposal problem. 
ppm (Parts per million): For wine, usually 
milligrams per liter, but any value, prefer­
ably in the same units, such as Ib/million 
lb. A confusing term which should be re­
placed by more specific SI units. Particularly 
confusing in comparing liquid and gaseous 
concentrations. (See Chapter 1). 
PPO (Polyphenol Oxidase): The natural 
browning enzyme of grapes and most other 
plant products. Present in juices to varying 
degrees. 
Proof: A measure of alcohol content usually 
limited to distilled beverages. One % by 
volume of ethanol equals 2 V.S. proof mea­
sured at 60°F. British proof is slightly dif­
ferent. Proof spirit is 100 proof(50% vol/vol 
ethanol). 
Proof gallon: One V.S. gallon (3.785 L) of 
100 proof (50% vol/vol) ethanol or the 
equivalent amount of ethanol. 
Proteins: Relatively large chains of amide-lin­
ked amino acids. Twenty amino acids are 
commonly involved and may also be linked 
to other subunits such as carbohydrates 
(glycoproteins). Enzymes are proteins and 
the most common haze producers in white 
wines are proteins. 
Pump over: The operation of transferring 
fluid, especially fermenting red wine, from 
low in the container back over the surface, 
particularly the cap of floating grape skins. 
The term may be applied to similar proce­
dures such as mixing tanks of wine to dis-Glossary 581 
tribute or keep distributed fining agents, 
etc. Punching down is an alternative proce­
dure of submerging the cap during macera­
tions such as red wine fermentations. 
Quality: The summation of intrinsic factors 
such as color, odor, and flavor that cause 
knowledgeable and discriminating cus­
tomers to say that that one wine is better 
and worth more than another one. Obvi­
ously varying from wine type to wine type, 
subjective, and prone to frequent disagree­
ment even among enologists, high quality is, 
nevertheless, an all-important goal with 
wine. 
Rachis: The stem of the grape cluster. 
Racking: The process almost invariably fol­
lowed during transfer of bulk wine by 
pumping or siphoning the relatively clear 
top portion away without or prior to dis­
turbing the sediment (lees). Like decanting, 
except applied to bulk wine handling and 
not to simple pouring of wine from one 
container to another or individual bottles. 
Racking arm: A gooseneck tube and valve 
arrangement through the lower end of a 
tank rotatable so as to enable removal of 
clear fluid down to near the lees. 
Raisin: The French word for grape which, in 
English, has become restricted to raisins sec 
or dried grapes, ordinarily sun-dried with 
the characteristic flavor, high sugar, brown 
color, etc. 
Rose: The French word for pink (pro­
nounced rozay) applied to light red wines, 
especially pink table wines. 
Saccharomyces: Literally "sugar fungus" from 
Latin; the generic (genus) scientific name 
for yeasts of the type used in wine fermenta­
tions. 
Scion: The portion of a vine that carries the 
aboveground grape variety when grafted to 
a rootstock. 
Skin contact: The operation (and conditions, 
especially time and temperature) of macer­
ating the solids (pomace, skins, seeds) of 582 Glossary 
grapes with the fluid juice or fermenting 
wine. Necessary in the typical conversion of 
red grapes into red wine, but sometimes 
used in other contexts, such as making 
heavier white wines. 
Sluggish fennentation: A fermentation that 
proceeds more slowly than it should. (See 
Stuck) 
Solera system: A fractional blending system 
developed for Spanish sherry. 
Sparkling wines: Champagnes and other 
wines fermented a second time in a closed 
system (Charmat tank or individual bottle) 
so that the carbon dioxide generated re­
mains in the wine. Distinguished from car­
bonated wines which are charged with sepa­
rately collected carbon dioxide in the same 
way as soda pop. 
Specialty product: Wine or wine-containing 
product not usually or traditionally made, 
e.g., wine coolers, de alcoholized wine. (See 
also Alternative products and Byproducts) 
Spoilage yeast: Those yeasts, in the context 
of this book, which mayor may not be able 
to complete a fermentation of grape juice, 
but produce off odors, off flavors, or turbid­
ity where not wanted. Species of all the 19 
or so wine-related yeast genera can be in­
cluded. (See also Yeast). 
Statistics: (1) Collected data, usually numeri­
cal, characterizing wine production, e.g., L 
or Tm by variety, vintage, area, etc.; and (2) 
the branch of mathematics and the proce­
dures employed to estimate the typicality 
and believability of experimental or variable 
results. 
Stemmy: A characteristic flavor imparted by 
not or incompletely removing the cluster 
stems (rachises) during winemaking. It is 
reminiscent of herbaceous, peppery, bitter 
components. 
Stuck: A fermentation that has halted before 
the expected completion owing to exces­
sively high temperature, unanticipated nu­
trient shortage, etc. Style: The characteristics within a wine type 
that are intended to distinguish one wine 
from another. For example, in the category 
of young varietal Zinfandel red table wines, 
we would emphasize a raspberry-fruity style, 
others might emphasize more vinous, tannic 
character. 
Sulfur dioxide: The gas (S02) formed by 
burning sulfur in air. Quite soluble in water 
and easily compressed to a liquid, it is un­
pleasant to work around, but useful for 
hundreds of years as a constituent or addi­
tive in juices and wines to prevent undesir­
able chemical and microbial deterioration. 
It may be liberated under appropriate con­
ditions (especially acidity) from its salts such 
as potassium metabisulfite (pyrobisulfite, 
K2S205) or other bisulfites and sulfites. 
Sur lies: A French term meaning "on lees" 
used to designate a rather specific type of 
maceration on the yeast lees, usually with 
periodic stirring and especially with barrel­
fermented Chardonnay wine. A complex 
flavor can result from the yeast leakage over 
time. 
Table wines: Here the term means all those 
grape wines that are made by a single, com­
plete fermentation. They are therefore lim­
ited to about 12% alcohol (under 14% by 
U.S. tax category) unless made from botry­
tized musts or dried grapes. They are in­
tended as a beverage to accompany a meal. 
In other languages, table wine can be a 
slightly denigrating term signifying ordinary 
quality, but that is not implied here. Table 
wines include the finest wines of the types 
and styles as well as the everyday ones. 
Tannin, tannic: Large, astringent, protein­
precipitating natural phenols and their fla­
vor effect in wines. Grapes contain, espe­
cially in the seeds, condensed tannins 
(flavonoid polymers), whereas oak barrel 
extract and tannic acid used in fining are 
hydrolyzable into gallic and/or ellagic acid. 
They have similar flavor and hide-to-Ieather 
tanning effects, but different chemistry. Taste: Strictly, the mouth sensations sensed 
by the taste buds including bitter, salty, tart 
(acidic), and sweet. Commonly, the other 
oral sensations of astringency, body, and 
hotness or pungency are also included. (See 
also Flavor). 
Tawny: The brick-red color which develops 
as red wine ages usually with some oxida­
tion, as opposed to bright red or blue-red. A 
defect in wines intended to be fresh and 
fruity like most roses, but expected and 
often a mark of quality in mature red wines. 
It indicates a special style in ports, and, if 
produced by heating the wine, is not neces­
sarily viewed as a quality improvement. 
TCA: A perfect example of why we detest 
jargon. This term has been used for the 
tricarboxylic acid cycle (Kreb's or citric acid 
cycle) of aerobic metabolism, trichloroacetic 
acid (a protein precipitant), and 2,4,6-tri­
chloroanisole (an active corky odorant). 
Terpene: A class of compounds biochemi­
cally derived from mevalonic acid and made 
up of five-carbon isoprene units. Ten-carbon 
monoterpenes are important odorants of 
the highly aromatic muscat grapes and wines 
from them and relatives. 
Tm: See Ton, metric. 
Ton, metric: Sometimes written tonne and 
essentially equivalent to a long ton in the 
obsolete English system, it is 1000 kg. One 
T M equals 2204.6 Ib or 1.1 U.S. English 
tons. A quintal (q) is 0.1 T M' 100 kg, or 
220.5 lb. The equivalent term megagram, 
Mg, is seldom used, probably from potential 
confusion with milligram, mg. 
Ullage: The amount that a container lacks of 
being full, especially if occasioned by loss 
from an originally full condition. (Pro­
nounced uh-lage) (See Headspace). 
VA (Volatile Acidity): The portion of the to­
tal acidity that is volatile (distillable away 
from the fixed acidity) representing acetic 
acid and relatives. It is considered indicative 
of microbiological (acetobacter) spoilage, if 
appreciable. Red table wines with more than 
1.4 giL as acetic and other grape wines Glossary 583 
with more than 1.2 giL are by U.S. regula­
tions too high to be marketed as unspoiled 
wines. Wines high in acetic acid are or 
become also high in ethyl acetate and the 
latter is more odorous. 
Varietal: A wine named for the variety of 
grapes from which it was made. By U.S. 
regulations it must be from a minimum of 
75% of the named grape, with additional 
rules if more than one variety is named. 
Vector: Transporting agent for disease, e.g., 
nematodes can be vectors for grapevine 
viruses. 
Veraison: The French word for ripening now 
adopted specifically for the onset of ripen­
ing of grapes. The transition stage marking 
the beginning of sugar accumulation, berry 
softening, chlorophyll loss, and anthocyanin 
formation. 
Vinegar: Wine and other (designated) alco­
holic beverages aerobically converted by 
Acetobacter into condiments rich in acetic 
acid and ethyl acetate for salad dressing and 
similar usage. Formerly, now seldom, a 
spoiled wine. An alternate product for 
wineries. 
Vinification: The process of making wines 
from grapes. 
Vinous: The flavor that denotes wine without 
specific varietal aromas or special bouquets. 
Vintage: A specific harvest season for grapes 
and the resultant wine. By U.S. regulations 
designation on a wine label of the year of 
harvest requires that 95% of the wine was 
made from grapes harvested during that 
year. 
Vintner: Properly, a seller of wines. 
Viticulture: The science and technology of 
grape growing. 
Vitis: The botanical genus of grapes. Species 
include most importantly vinifera (the clas­
sic wine grapes), labrusca or labruscana 
(Concord and relatives), and several other 
species less known for fruit, but useful for 
other purposes. Hybrids are genetic crosses 
involving more than one species of grape. 584 Glossary 
Wild yeasts: Yeasts which can initiate a fer­
mentation of grape juice, but are not toler­
ant enough to ethanol to complete the fer­
mentation. They are usually associated with 
the grape berry. Species are included from 
the genera: Hansenula, Kloeckera, Hansenias­
pora, and Metschnikowia. (See also Yeast) 
Wmemaking: The part of enology specifically 
related to selecting and converting grapes 
to wine ready to be consumed. The single 
word is preferred, unless special meaning is 
to be expressed. Winemaking and that of 
beer are interesting to contrast. Preferable 
usage could be "making of wine and beer 
are interesting to contrast." 
Wine spirits: Alcohol and associated compo­
nents of the distillate prepared from grape 
wine. By laws in the United States and many 
other (but not all) countries, other fermen­
tation sources can not be used in wines or 
brandies, much less ethanol from 
petroleum. 
Wine yeast: Yeasts that can ferment wine 
grape juice to completion (dry) and pro-duce a wine free of off-flavors and off-odors. 
Rather limited to species of the genus Sac­
charomyces and perhaps Schizosaccharomyces. 
They can also be spoilage yeasts, if present 
in an unwanted situation, e.g., semisweet 
bottled table wine. (See also Yeasts) 
WSA (Wine Spirits Addition): Fortification, 
the addition of distilled alcohol during 
winemaking. The technique used to make 
stable sweet wines by arresting the fermen­
tation before completion by adding brandy 
of high proof. Traditional ports, sherries, 
muscatels, etc., are made this way, and com­
monly are 18% alcohol. 
Yeast: By brief scientific definition, a single­
celled fungus. Wine-related yeasts are those 
found associated with grapes, vineyards, 
winery equipment, wine storage containers, 
or in wine. Here they are subdivided into 
three groups: Wine yeasts, Wild yeasts, and 
Spoilage yeasts. 
Yeast hulls: Empty (autolyzed) yeast cell walls. 
Sometimes called yeast ghosts. A 
Acetaldehyde 
binding kinetics of, 461 
binding with bisulfite, 459 
formation, 136-137 
Acetamide, 372-373 
Acetic acid, 41,149-150,417,523 
Acetic acid bacteria 
kinds of, 373-374 
spoilage, 373-376 
spoilage prevention, 374 
taxonomy, 374-376 
Acetobacter, 149 
aceti, 374-375 
cap management, 122 
hansenii, 375-376 
liquefaciens, 374-377 
pasteurianus, 374-377 
catalase test, 568 
spoilage, 373-376 
xylinum, 370,376 
Acetoin, malolactic, 250 
Acetyl-CoA, 127 
2-Acetyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyridine, 373 
Acid(s) 
acetic, 149-150, 523 
amino (see Amino acids) 
ascorbic (see Ascorbic acid) 
caffeic, 42, 408, 412-415 
gallic, 42, 43, 45, 408, 412-414 INDEX 
a-keto glutaric, 147 
lactic, 522 
malic, 522 
mucic (see Calcium mucate) 
organic, 138, 146 
pyruvic, 523 
sorbic, 434 
succinic, 147,522 
tartaric, 85, 521, 534 
Acidification 
cation exchange, 86 
tartaric acid addition, 85, 534 
Acidity, 38, 39,41,53-55,57,399,521-537 (see also 
specific acids) 
changes during precipitation, 536 
dissolved CO 2, 434 
organic acids, 521 
pH,523 
titratable acidity, 523 
Acti-ciione, (see Cycloheximide) 
Activated carbon, 288, 407 
Activation energy 
of browning, wine, 442, 467 
of calcium tartrate crystallization, 337 
of enzyme inactivation, 88-89 
of ester hydrolysis (acetates), 180 
of oxygen uptake, wine, 442, 467 
of sulfur dioxide loss, wine, 442, 467 
of thiamin cleavage, 463 
of viscosity, 482 
585 586 Index 
Activation energy (cont.) 
of yeast death, 145 
of yeast growth, 145 
of yeast maintenance, 145 
Active amyl alcohol, 150, 165 
Active dry wine yeast 
production and use, 123-124 
survival factors, 124 
Active transport, 155-156 
Acylation, 44-45 
Additives, permitted, 551 
Addresses of equipment manufacturers, 572-3 
Adenosine triphosphate, 127 
malolactic, 270-272 
yeast fermentation, 127, 132, 135-137 
Adsorption phenomena (see Fining) 
Aeration, juice, 87 
Aerobic bacteria, 373-378, 568 
Aerobic conditions, 391,405 
Aging, 382-424 (see also Maturation) 
bottle, 391, 420, 423-424 
cellar temperature, 389 
esterification during, 398-399, 420 
oak extraction (see Oak) 
phenol polymerization during, 233 
rapid, 388, 424 
rate effects, 467 
temperatures, 423 
Air diaphragm pumps, 476 
Albumen, 283 
Alcohol(s), 41 (see also Ethanol) 
Fusel, higher, 50 (see also Higher alcohols) 
Alcohol dehydrogenase, 137 
and ethanol tolerance, 177-178 
Alcohol removal, 306 
Alcohol yield, 195 
Alcoholic fermentation (see Fermentation) 
Aldehydes, 50, 391 
Alginate, 286 
Alkaline oxygen uptake, 410-411 
Alternative products, 8-9 (see also Brandy, 
Concentrate, Vinegar) 
Amertume spoilage, 373 
Amino acid(s) 
assimilation by yeast, 154-155, 158 
biosynthesis by yeast, 131 
degradation by yeast, 154 
in grapes, 46-48 
measures of free (FAN), 81 
metabolism by yeast, 155 
precursors of higher alcohols, 164 
preference by yeast, 154, 159-160 
transport in yeast, 157 
uptake patterns by yeast, 153, 156-158, 160 
Ammonia, 11 
Ammonium 
grape content, 81 malolactic, 264-265 
transport in yeast, 157 
uptake by yeast, 154, 159 
yeast growth, 159-160 
Ampelography, 17 
Anaerobic 
bacteria, 568 
conditions, 405-406, 422 
TCA pathway, 128 
Analysis 
chemical, 543-544 
sensory, 544-547 
difference, 417,545-546 
hedonic, 4, 417-418, 546-547 
panel selection, 544 
Anthocyanins, 34, 37, 40, 41, 42, 44, 46, 408, 412, 
419 
acylation of, 44 
copigmentation, 44, 224 
glucosides of, 44, 90 
individual, 223 
ionization of, 223 
polymerization of, 233 
solubilization of, 224 
Antimicrobial additives 
diethyl dicarbonate, 434 
dimethyl dicarbonate, 434 
sorbic acid, 434 
sulfur dioxide, 84, 454 
Antioxidant 
ascorbic acid, 465 
sulfur dioxide, 464 
Arginine, 25, 46 
degradation pathway, 162-164 
malolactic bacteria, 264-265 
Aroma, 18-20,31, 33, 34,46,49-51, 383, 387,398, 
424 
Arthrospores, 116 
Ascomycetes, 104 
Ascorbic acid, 52, 83, 84, 408 
laccase substrate, 84 
Ascospores, 111- 113 
Assimilation 
nitrate, 114 
nitrogen compounds, 114 
Astringency, 41, 46, 402, 410 
ATP (Adenosine triphosphate) 127, 132, 135-137 
ATPase, 525 
ethanol toxicity, 171, 172 
exchange reaction, 524 
in berries, 525 
in yeast, 157 
malolactic, 272 
potassium gain by, 524 
proton loss by, 524 
Autolysis, 135 B 
Bag-in-box, 420 
Bacilli spoilage, 377-378 
Bacillus (see Bacilli) 
Bacteria, malolactic and flavor, 248-250 
Bacteria spores, (see Bacilli) 
Bacteria/yeast, interaction, malolactic, 254 
Bacteriophage, malolactic, 250-260 
Balling scale, 194 
Barnyard odor, Brettanomyces, 365 
Barrels, 393, 399-406 (see also Oak, Staves, Wood, 
Trees) 
construction, 400, 403-405 
contamination, 393,405 
management, 405-406 
pretreatment, 406 
sensory effect, 400-403 
shape, 399 
size, 400 
surface, 399-400 
Basidiomycetes, 104 
Batch cooling (see Cooling) 
Batch fed fermentation (see Syruped fermentation) 
BATF regulations, 6, 418, 551-556 
Baume scale, 194 
Belgium beer, (see Lambie) 
Bentonite, 281-283, 284-285 
Bentotest, 341 
Berry composition, 35-52, 39 
acids, 41 
alcohols, 41 
aroma compounds, 49 
carbohydrates, 40 
climatic variation, 37 
lipids, 48 
minerals, 40 
miscellaneous compounds, 51 
nitrogenous substances, 46-48 
phenols, 42 
populations, 57 
terpenoids, 49 
vitamins, 51 
Berry development, 35 
enlargement, 35-38 
Biotin, 82, 134 
Bisulfite (see Sulfur dioxide) 
Bitterness, 41, 46, 410 
Blastospores, 116 
Blending, 26, 384-385, 388, 392-393, 415-421 
fractional, 420 (see also Solera) 
mathematics of, 418-421 
objectives, 416-418 
restrictions, 416 
Blue fining, 287-288 
Blush wine (see White table wine, Rose wine) 
BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), 562 Botrytis cinerea, 37, 122, 217 
J3-g1ucan, 90, 217 
gluconic acid, 37, 41 
laccase, 37, 83, 218, 408 
oxygen uptake in juices, 83 
Bottle aging, 391, 420, 424 
Bottled wine 
heating/ cooling calculations, 443 
pressures in, 440 
storage temperatures, 423, 442 
time to cool, 443 
Bottling 
corking, 438 
de dusting, 437 
filling, 437 
gas exchange during, 439 
labelling, 438 
operations, 435-442 
preparation for, 427 
quality control, 435 
room, 437 
Bouquet, 383, 420, 424 
fermentation, 398 Index 587 
Bouquet garni of sulfite and tartrate, 361 
Brandy, 2 
higher alcohols effect on, 153 
Brettanomyces, 103-104, 107, 112 
barrels, 367 
cellobiose, 368 
control, 367-369 
Custer's effect, 367 
detection, 365-366 
glucose, 368 
identification, 366-367 
Lambic beer, 365,368 
off odors, 365 
origins, 353-354 
prevention, 365 
scenario, spoilage origins, 353-354 
spoilage, 364-369 
sterile bottling, 368 
wine species, 368 
Brix, 34, 37, 39,41,54-58 
Brix/acid,55 
potential ethanol, 196 
scale, 194 
temperature corrections, 195 
Browning, 43, 235 
juice, 43, 83 
wine, 235, 406-415, 442-442, 467 
Bubble point, 430-431 
Budding, (buds) 
vines, 27, 29 
yeast, 105 
multilateral, 113 
Buffer capacity, 526 
effect of pH, 526-528 588 Index 
Buffer capacity (cont.) 
equations for, 527 
estimated values, 529 
measurement, 528 
Bulk aging (see Maturation) 
2,3-Butane diol 
in extract, 138 
malolactic, 250 
Butyric acid, Brettanomyces, 365 
Byproducts, 2, 8-9 
c 
CabernetSauTIgnon, 46, 50,51, 386,423 
Caffeic acid, 42, 408, 412-415 
Caffeoyl tartrate (see Caftaric acid) 
Caftaric acid, 41-43, 408-409, 412 
Calcium, 323 
Calcium carbonate, 85-86, 534 
media, 375-376 
Calcium malate, 85 
Calcium mucate, 338 
Calcium tartrate 
concentration product, 322, 335 
crystallization rate, 335 
in deacidification, 85 
seeded rate test, 336 
solubility, 322 
stability testing, 336 
Calcium sulfate, 337 
California and Europe, grape juices, 125 
Candida, 115 
ropy wines, 371 
spoilage yeast, 361 
Canopy management (see Vineyard management) 
Cap management, 122 (see also Pump-over opera-
tion) 
Carbohydrates, 40-41 
Carbon (see Activated carbon) 
Carbon dioxide 
effect on acidity, 434 
hazard, 7, 10 
levels in bottled wine, 433 
release during fermentation, 198 
venting of cellars, 433 
Carbonic maceration, 236 
malolactic, 251-252 
Casein, 283 
Casse, 338 
Catabolite repression (see Glucose repression) 
Catalase test, 568 
for lactic acid bacteria, 263-264 
Catechin, 44, 45-46, 408, 412 
Cations, 323, 338 
Cell counting, 569-571 (see Microscopic cell 
counting) 
Cell diTIsion, types of in yeast, 105 Cellobiose, Brettanomyces and, 368 
Cellulose fibers, 297 
Centrifugal pumps, 477 
Centrifuge(s) 
decanting (scroll), 78, 293 
desludging (disc), 77, 291 
Champagne, malolactic, 253 
Chardonnay, 386,423 
Chromosomes, yeast 120, 121 
Cider, mousey, 372-273 
Cinnamate decarboxylase, Brettanomyces, 365-366 
Clarification, 75-79, 289-305 
centrifuges, 291,293 
juice, 75 
natural settling, 289 
settling aids, 290 
wine, 289, 293 
Clearing, calcium carbonate media, 375-376 
Climate, 15, 20, 24, 30-32 
variation in, 37-39, 46 
Climatic region, 24, 30-32, 37-38 
Clones, 16, 17 
Closures 
cork (see Cork) 
plastic, 421-422 
screw cap (see Screw cap) 
Cluster parts, 40, 59 
COD (chemical oxygen demand), 562 
Cold soak (see Skin contact) 
Cold stability (see Potassium bitartrate) 
Cold storage, 388, 389, 424 (see also Refrigeration) 
Colloidal stability, 344 
Colloids, 286, 344 
Color extraction (see Red table wines) 
Color phenomena 
browning in red wine, 235 
changes during aging, 233-235 
effect of pH, 223 
effect of S02' 223 
in red wines, 224 
red monomer contributions, 233 
red polymer formation, 233 
rates of red polymer formation, 233 
Complex flavor, 387-388, 392, 420 
Concentrated juice, 2, 8-9 
Zygosaccharomyces, 363 
Concord, 417 
Condensed tannin, 45 
ConductiTIty 
effect of pH, 329 
in seeded tests, 328, 330 
Conjugation, yeast, 111, 114 
Consumer Preferences, 23, 383, 387, 420, 424 (see 
also Analysis, sensory, hedonic; Marketing) 
Containers 
concrete, 394 
experimental,540-541 plastic, 394 
steel, 394, 398 (see Stainless steel) 
wooden (see Barrels) 
Continuous de juicers, 75 
Control of 
Brettanomyces spoilage, 367-369 
malolactic fermentation, 254 
Coolers, 2 
Cooling 
of bottled wine, 443 
of must, 493 
of juice, 495, 497, 499 
ofwine,495,497,499 
Cooper, 403 
Cooperage, 394 (see Barrels, Oak, Wooden 
cooperage) 
Copigmentation, 244 
Copper 
in grapes, 35, 339 
limits in wines, 338 
pickup, 339, 394 
Copper sulfate 
removal of sulfide, thiol with, 289 
Cork, 383, 390, 420-422 
corkiness, 360, 422 
off-odor (see Trichloroanisole) 
Corkers, heated jaws, 438 
Cos~,4-5, 384, 386, 398, 400, 420, 424 
Coumaric (p) acid, 42 (see Coutaric acid) 
Counting chambers, 569-571 
Coutaric acid, 42, 43, 412 
Crabtree effect, 130, (see also Glucose, inhibition 
and repression) 
Crop level, 32-34 (see also Vineyard management) 
Crossflow filtration, 78, 303 
Crushers, 66 
Crushing, 57, 60, 65-68 
special conditions 
botrytised berries, 68 
carbonic maceration, 68 
stem addition (retention), 68 
whole berry, 67 
whole cluster, 68 
Cryptoccus, 115 
Crystallization 
processes, 331 
rates, 325 
Cufex (see Potassium ferrocyanide) 
Cultivation of wine microbes, 358-359 
Custer's effect, Brettanomyces, 367 
Cycloheximide 
Brettanomyces identification, 366-367 
inhibition of yeast, 113, 358 
toxicity, 366 o 
Damascenone, 50 
DAP (see Diammonium phosphate) 
Deacidification Index 589 
carbonate treatmen~, 85, 534 
malolactic fermentation, 245-247, 534 
Debaryomyces, 114, 115 
as spoilage yeast, 361 
Decanter (see Centrifuges) 
DEDC (see Diethyl dicarbonate) 
Degree-days, 30-32 
Dehiscent yeast, Ill, 114 
Dekkera, 107 (see also Brettanomyces) 
Density scales, 193 
Balling, 194 
Baume, 194 
Brix, 194 
Klosterneuburg, 195 
Oeschle, 194 
Plato, 195 
Density segregation, 58 
Dessert wines, 2, 390, 397 (see also Port, Muscatels, 
Sherries) 
Destemming, 59, 65 
Detection, 
Brettanomyces spoilage, 365-366 
malolactic, 248-250,260-261 
Deuteromycetes, 104 
Diacetyl 
malolactic bacteria, 249 
yeast, 249 
Diammonium phosphate, 80 
Diaphragm pump, 476 
Diethyl dicarbonate, 434 
Diffusion 
facilitated, 155-156 
simple, 155 
Direct heat transfer 
liquid CO 2, 513 
solid CO 2, 512 
Dissolved carbon dioxide, 432 
acidity effects, 434 
Dissolved oxygen, 70, 88, 432 
Diatomaceous earth, 295 
Dimer,45 
Dimethyl dicarbonate, 434 
malolactic, 259, 369-370 
microbial stabilization by, 363 
Disulfides 
cleavage by sulfite, 463 
DMDC (see Dimethyl dicarbonate) 
Dormancy, leaf drop, 29, 32 
Double salt deacidification, 85, 86 
Drainers, 73 
early models, 74 
contemporary 74 
screens, 75 
Dyer varieties, 23 (see also Anthocyanins) 590 Index 
E 
Economics, 3-6, 24, 26, 27, 383-386, 418 
of scale, 5, 384 
Efflux, lactic acid, 272 
Ehrlich reaction, 152, 165-166 
Ellagitannins, 44, 402 (see also Tannins) 
Electricity consumption, 517 
Electron transport chain, 127-128, 130 
Electrophoresis, malolactic bacteria, 269 
Elemental sulfur (see Sulfur) 
End products 
of malolactic, 248-250 
of nitrogen metabolism, 164-167 
of yeast metabolism, 146-153 
Energy conservation, 517 
Enrichment cultures, 103-104 
Enzymatic analysis, malic acid, 261 
Enzyme additions 
glucanase, 90 
glycosidase, 90 
pectinases, 89 
Epicatechin gallate, 45 
Erythorbic acid (see Ascorbic acid) 
Esters, 423 
composition in wine, 178 
formation during aging, 398 
formation during fermentation, 178-180 
in relation to higher alcohols, 150 
hydrolysis, 180 
loss during aging, 424 
yeast strain, 180 
Ethanol 
and malolactic, 255, 258 
as end product, 146 
effect on pKas, 531 
inhibition of yeast growth, 142 
loss during fermentation, 139, 205-206 
rate of formation, 144, 149 
toxicity of yeast, 170-171 
yield, 137-138, 195 
Ethanol precipitation test, 342-343 
Ethanol tolerance in yeast, (see also Ethanol 
toxicity) 
adaptation in yeast, 177-178 
alcohol dehydrogenase, 177 
enzyme denaturation, 172 
intracellular concentration, 172 
membrane fluidity, 177 
Saccharomyces, 125 
survival factors, 171, 177 
wine and nonwine strains, 177 
yeast growth and fermentation, 172 
Ethanol toxicity, (see also Ethanol tolerance) 
ATP-ase activity, 171, 172 
enzyme denaturation, 172 
glucose repression, 171 survival factors, 171, 177 
yeast, 170-172 
2-Ethoxyhex-3,5-diene (see Geranium off-odor) 
Ethyl acetate, 179 
Ethyl bitartrate, 398-399, 420 
Ethyl caproate, 50 
Ethyl carbamate, 25, 166-167 
malolactic, 265 
4-Ethyl guaiacol, Brettanomyces, 365-366 
4-Ethyl phenol, Brettanomyces, 365-366 
2-Ethyl-3,4,5,6-tetrahydropyridines, 372-373 
Europe and California, grape juices, 125 
Euvitis, 14 
Evaporation 
during aging, 398, 405-406 
during fermentation, 204 
ethanol, 204, 406 
water, 205, 406 
Exchange capacity, 284 
Experimental wines, 539-547 
analysis of, 543 
controls, 542 
lot size, 540 
replication, 542 
sampling of, 541 
sensory evaluation of, 543 
Exposure (see Sunlight, Canopy management) 
Exposure limits, 564-565 
average values, 564 
Extended maceration (see Skin contact) 
Extract 
in juices, 195, 196 
in wines, 138-139 
nomogram for wine, 139 
Extraction, 40 (see also Red table wine) 
F 
FADH/FADH2 (Flavine adenine dinucleotide), 127 
Fats (see Lipids) 
Fatty acids 
survival factors, 171 
Fermentation(s) (see also Malolactic fermentation) 
barrel, 198, 202-204 
biochemistry, 126-137 
bouquet, 178 
carbon dioxide release, 198 
cooling 
jackets, 202 
heat exchangers, 202 
effect of inert solids, 213 
effect of nutrition, 169-170 
effect of temperature, 145 
end product of fermentation, 146 
heat release, 145, 200 
incomplete (see sluggish/stuck,) 
inoculations, 123 kinetics of, 141-146 
mixed, 125 
modeling, 207 
monitoring, 206 
aggregate measures, 207 
point sampling, 206 
natural, 124 
non induced (see natural) 
rates of, 141, 144-145 
sluggish/stuck, 134, 168 
ethanol toxicity, 170-172 
nutrient deficiency, 134, 169 
temperature effect, 173 
toxins as cause, 172-173 
spontaneous (see natural) 
temperature rise, 200 
tests, 114, 118 
volume changes during, 203 
(see also Malolactic) 
Fermentors 
barrels as, 202-204 
circulation patterns in, 211 
cleaning, 210 
expansion and contraction, 209 
filling and emptying, 209 
gas venting, 209 
headspace (ullage), 210 
rotary, 211 
shapes, 210 
upright, 210 
Ferocious lactobacilli, 268, 371 
Ferrocyanide (see Potassium ferrocyanide) 
Fertaric acid, 42 
Ferulic acid, 42 
Field crushing, 66 
Fillers, sterile bottling, 437-438 
Filters 
cartridge, 302 
charged-modified media, 431 
crossflow, 303 
diatomaceous earth, 295 
lees, 78 
membrane, 302 
pad, 299, 300 
plate and frame, 300 
pressure leaf, 295 
rotary vacuum, 78 
sheet, 300 
Filterability 
Exponential equation, 309 
Crossflow equation, 312 
indices of, 308 
models for, 308 
Power equation, 310 
Sperry equation, 309 
testing, 307, 312 Filtration 
crossflow, 303 
diatomaceous earth, 295 
pad or sheet, 299, 300 
prediction of, 308 
measures of capacity, 313 
membrane, 428 
sterile, 428 
Fining 
adsorption models, 281 
agents, 281, 282 
levels of addition, 283 
Fire, 11-12 
Fission, yeast, 105 
Fittings, 482 
Flammability limits, 564-565 
Flash point, 565 
Flavan-3-01s (see Catechin) 
Flavonoid phenols, 42, 44, 45-46 Index 591 
extraction during red fermentations, 225 
from skin contact, 69, 212 
Flavor, 383, 387-388, 392, 420, 422 
malolactic fermentation, 248-250 
Flavor production, by yeast strain, 118 
Flavored wines, Special Natural, vermouths, 2 
Flexible impeller pumps, 476 
Fortified wines, 237 
aging, 238 
fermentation temperatures, 237 
must handling, 237 
selection of spirit, 237 
spoilage, 371-372 
timing of fortification, 237 
Fraturia 
genera, 374-375 
in juices, 374 
Freezing of wine bottles, 441 
Freons,514 
Freundlich equation, 280 
Frictional loss in pipelines, 478 
expansions/contractions, 485 
fi ttings, 482 
length, 481 
nomogram for predicting, 487 
valves, 483 
Frost, 27, 29 
Fructophilic yeast, 140, 363 
Fructose, 39, 41, 53, 158 
malolactic, 271 
metabolism (see Glycolysis) 
transport in yeast, 158 
Fruit wines, 2 
Fumaric acid, 434 
malolactic, 259 
Furfural, 423 
Fusel alcohol(s) (see Higher alcohols) 
Fusel oil(s) (see Higher alcohols) 592 Index 
G 
Galacturonic acid, 41 (see Pectin) 
Gallic acid, gallates, 42, 43, 45, 408, 412-414 
Gallotannins, 44 (see also Ellagitannins) 
Gas 
inert handling, 70 
pressure transfers of wine, 489 
release during fermentation, 198, 207 
solubility in wines 
carbon dioxide, 204, 432 
nitrogen, 432 
oxygen, 432 
temperature effects, 432 
Gelatin 
combination with silica sol, 288, 289 
properties, 283 
Genus identification, yeast, 105 
Geraniol, 50 (see also Terpenoids) 
Geranium off-odor, 363, 434 
Gewurztraminer, 417 
Glass, 422 
Glossary, 574-583 
~Glucanase, 90, 346 
~Glucans, 90 
Gluconic acid, 37, 41 
Gluconobacter, 374-376 
Glucophilic yeast, 140 
Glucose, 39, 41, 53 
binding kinetics, 461 
binding with bisulfite, 460 
Brettanomyces, 368 
effect on free S02 determination, 461 
inactivation by, 141 
inhibition of fermentation, 171 
metabolism (see Glycolysis) 
repression, 130, 140-141 
transport in yeast, 158 
Glutathione, 51, 408-409 
effect on juice browning, 51 
levels in juice, 51 
reaction with caftaric acid, 42, 81 
2-S-Glutathionyl caftaric acid, 42 
Glycerol 
formation during fermentation, 137, 146-148 
Glycolysis, 126-128, 135-140 
byproducts from, 138 
enzymes of, 136 
glycolytic pathway, 135-138 
regulation of, 139-140 
Glycosidases, 90, 347 
anthocyanase, 90 
terpene release, 90 
Glyoxylate pathway, 131-132 
Grafting, 15 
Grape(s) 
composition (see Berry composition) cultivars for wine (see variety, Viticulture) 
harvesting, 4, 29 
machine, 21, 59 
manual,59 
practices, 59-60 
juice concentrate (see Concentrated juice) 
natural microflora, 122 
pests, pesticides, 14, 15, 34-35 
sampling, 55-57 
size, weight, 35-37, 40, 53-54, 58 
species, 14-16 
spoilage microbes, 353 
temperature, 34 
tissue proportions, 40 
variety, 16, 17-24, 39 (see also Variety, Varietal, 
Hybrid) 
yeasts associated with, 103 
yield,24 
Grapegrower, 13-14 
Grape juice(s), nutrients of, 125 
Grapevine 
buds, budding, 27, 29 
dormancy, 29, 32 
Gravity transfers, 488 
Growing season, 27-29, 30-31 
Growth factors (see Oxygen, Sterols, Vitamins) 
survival factors, 171, 172 
GRP (glutathione reaction product), 42, 43, 408, 
409 (see also Browning, Glutathione) 
H 
Hansenula, higher alcohols, 153 
Harvest (see also Grape, Ripeness) 
logistics, 52 
sampling for, 52-53, 55-58 
timing, 29,52 
Harvest criteria, 52-58 
acidity, 53-54 
Brix, 53-54 
date, 53 
other, 54 
sugar, 53 
weight, 54 
Hausser chambers, 569-571 
Hazards, 6, 7-12, Appendix E 
Haze protecting factor, 342, 345 
Headspace (see Ullage) 
Heartwood, 403-404 (see also Wood) 
Heat, 389-390, 424 (see also Time-temperature) 
Heating 
applications, 492 
high-temperature short-time, 88, 343, 345 
inactivation of PPO, laccase, 88, 89 
release during fermentation, 200 
Heat exchangers 
FT factor, 503 
heat transfer units, 503 pressure loss, 504 
selection, 502 
transfer coefficients, 504-505 
types, 505 
Heat resistant bacteria, (see Bacilli) 
Heat transfer 
fermentation cooling, 201 
heat recovery, 502 
high-temperature short-time, 493 
juice cooling, 497, 499, 506 
must cooling, 497, 499, 507 
wine cooling, 497,499,506 
wine to wine interchange, 502 
Heat transfer calculations 
batch heating/cooling, 495 
mixed fluid, 495 
unmixed fluid, 500 
Hemocytometer, 569-571 
Heterolactic fermentation, 264,266 
cis-3-Hexen-1-al, 50 
Hexoses (see Fructose, Glucose) 
High-temperature short-time, 88, 343 
plate heat exchanger for, 493, 507 
stabilization of wine, 362 
Higher alcohols, 150-153 
amounts in wine, 152 
control offormation, 152-153, 166 
formation, 164-166 
from amino acids, 152, 164-166 
from glucose, 150-153 
function, 166 
Hansenula, 153 
pathways of formation, 150-151, 165 
Sake fermentation, 171 
Schizosaccharomyces, 153 
yeast 
genus, 153 
species, 150 
strain, 150, 153 
Histamine, malolactic, 250 
Histidine, malolactic, 250 
History, 15, 16, 383, 400 
Homolactic fermentation, 264, 266 
Horsey odor, Brettanomyces, 365 
Hoses, friction loss in, 478, 486 
Hot bottling, stabilization of wine, 362 
HPLC (high performance liquid chromatography), 
413-414 
HSU, Heat summation units, 30 (see also Degree-
days) 
HTST (see High-temperature short-time) 
Hubach test, 288 
Hybrid, 15, 23 
Hydrogen acceptors, malolactic, 271 
Hydrogen peroxide, 408, 410 
from ascorbic acid oxidation, 469 
from phenol oxidation, 408, 469 in catalase test, 568 
reaction with ethanol, 408, 469 
reaction with sulfite, 469 
Hydrogen sulfide, 11, 35, 387 
causes of, 173 
removal, 289 
role of 
amino nitrogen, 175 
elemental sulfur, 174 
other factors, 176 
pantothenic acid deficiency, 175 
presence of sulfite, 175 
Hydrometer scales, 193 
Hydroquinones, 407-409 Index 593 
regeneration of, 408-409 
Hydroxybenzoates, 42-43 (see also Gallic acid) 
3-Hydroxy-2-butanone, (see Acetoin) 
Hydroxycinnamates, 42 (see also Caftaric acid) 
Hydroxymethyl furfural, 97 
Hyperoxidation, 87 
Hypochlorite, 559 
Identification 
Brettanomyces spoilage, 366-367 
examples, yeast, 109 
importance of, 357-358 
yeast genera, 105,108 
yeast races, 117 
yeast species, 118 
yeast strains, 118 
Immobilized agents, 346 
Immobilized enzymes, 346 
Incomplete fermentation (see Fermentation) 
Indigenous yeast, 103 
Inert gas handling, 70 
Inert solids, 91,213 
Inhibition of malolactic, 257-260 
In-line additions, 71, 489 
flow measurement, 490 
mixing in pipeline, 490 
suspension metering, 490 
Inoculation 
alcoholic fermentation, 123 
bacteria, 256-257 
yeast, 197 
Integrity testing (see Membrane filters) 
Ion exchange 
acidity adjustment, 86 
nutrient depletion by, 86 
resin lifetime, 86 
Ionization of acids 
activity coefficients, 532 
effect of ethanol, 531 
effect of ion strength, 533 
effect of sugar, 531 
estimation of pKas, 530, 533 594 Index 
Iron, 338 
Irrigation, 26, 33, 34, 57 
Isinglass, 283 
Isoamyl acetate, 178-180 
Isoamyl alcohol, 150, 165 
Isoelectric point 
of fining proteins, 283 
of protein-tannin complexes, 284 
of wine proteins, 339 
Isolation of wine microbes, 358-359 
Isoprenoids (see Terpenoids) 
Jackets, cooling, 511 
Juice 
K and skin separation, 73 
clarification (see Clarification) 
conditioning, 79 
acidity,84 
aeration, 87 
enzyme additions, 88 
high-temperature short-time, 88 
inert solids, 91, 213 
nutrient additions, 80 
S02 additions, 82 
cooling 
storage alternatives, 95 
crossflow microfiltration, 78,96 
evaporative concentration, 96 
membrane concentration, 97 
refrigeration, 96 
sulfiting, 95 
white, clarification, 75 
centrifuging, 77 
filtration, 78 
flotation, 79 
natural settling, 76 
Karyogamic analysis 
malolactic bacteria, 269 
Karyotype analysis 
yeast strain, 120 
a-Keto glutaric acid, 147 
binding with bisulfite, 460 
effect on free S02 determination, 461 
in amino acid metabolism, 147 
Kieselsol (see Silica sol) 
Killer factor, 170 
Kloeckera, 109-110, 112 
Klosterneuburg scale, 195 
L 
Laccase, 37, 83, 218, 408 
and ascorbic acid, 84 
inactivation by sulfite, 83 
substrates, 83 Lactic acid bacteria (see Malolactic bacteria) 
Lactic acid, efflux of, 272 
D-Lactic acid end product, 265, 268-270 
L-Lactic acid end product, 265, 268-270 
Lactobacilli 
ferocious, 268, 371 
malolactic, 268 
Lactobacillus 
bavaricus, 268 
brevis,269 
buchneri, 269 
casei,268 
conjusus, 265 
curuatus, 268 
fermenti, 268 
fermentum, 269 
jructivurans, 269 
fortified wine, 372 
surface growth, 355, 358 
hilgardii, 268, 269 
homohiochii, 268 
kejrr,269 
murinus, 268 
plantarum, 268 
sake,268 
trichodes, 268 (see jructivurans) 
viridescens, 265 
Lactococci 
malolactic, 272 
Lambic beer 
Brettanomyces, 365, 368 
Langmuir equation, 280 
Lead,338 
Lees filter, 78 
Leucine-less mutant, higher alcohol production, 
153, 165 
Leuconostoc omos, defined, 265-266 
Leuconostocs 
ammonia, 264-265 
arginine, 264-265 
malolactic, 265-266 
Levy-Hausser counting chambers, 569-571 
Light, 394, 422 (see also Sunlight) 
Lignans, 402 
Linalool, 50, 423 (see also Terpenoids, Muscat) 
Lipids, 48-49 
bloom, 48 
oil, seed, 48 
ripening indicator, 49 
wax, 48 
Lobe pumps (see Rotary vane pumps) 
M 
Maderization, 390, 391 (see also Heat, Oxidation) 
Magnesium, 323 Malate carboxy lyase, 269,279 
Malate-lactate transhydrogenase, 270 
Malate oxidase, 270 
Malic acid analyses, 261 
Malic dehydrogenase, 270 
Malolactic bacteria 
ammonia, 264-265 
cultivation, 263 
descriptions, 262-263 
flavor effects, 248-250 
genus identification, 264-265 
identification, 263-268 
intermediary metabolism, 269-272 
microaerophilic, 263-264 
species identification, 265-268 
Malolactic fermentation, 244-273 
acidulation after, 246 
ATP, 270-272 
bacteriological stability, 247 
control, 254 
conversion, 245-247 
deacidification, 245-247 
detection of, 260-261 
diacetyl, 248-250 
dimethyl dicarbonate, 259, 369-370 
enzyme, 269, 270 
ethanol, 255 
fumaric acid, 259 
histamine, 250 
induction, 270 
inhibition, 257-260 
interaction yeast/bacteria, 254 
NAD + jNADH, 270-272 
nutrients, 255-256 
oxygen, 256 
pH, 246, 255, 369-370 
pyruvic acid, 270 
red wine, 251-252 
sparkling wines, 253 
spoilage, 369-373 
stability, bacteriological, 247 
starter cultures, 256-257 
sterile bottling, 258-259 
stimulation, 254-256, 270 
strain assessment, 543 
strain identification, 268-269 
sulfur dioxide, 255, 257 
sur lies, 252 
temperature, 255, 259 
thermodynamics, 270 
titratable acidity, 246-247 
Vinhos Verdes, 251, 253 
white wine, 252-253 
wine style, 251-253 
Malvidin-3-glucoside, 42, 44, 223-224, 407, 410, 412 
Mannite (see Mannitol spoilage) 
Mannitol spoilage, 373 Index 595 
Marketing, 4, 6, 385, 390, 424 (see also Consumer 
preferences) 
Maturation, 382-424 (see also Aging) 
bulk,393 
containers, 393-398 
inevitability, 383, 385 
objectives, 386-388 
practices, 393-397, 390 
rapid, 388, 424 
reactions, 398 
traditional, 383, 390-393 
variables, 398-399 
Mechanical harvesting, 21, 59 
Media formulas, Appendix F 
Membrane filters, integrity testing, 430-431 
Membrane filtration, quality control, 435-437 (see 
also Filtration, Sterile filtration) 
Membrane fluidity 
ethanol, 171 
ethanol tolerance, 177 
Membrane permeability, ethanol, 171 
Membrane separations 
juice concentration, 97, 307 
ethanol removal, 306 
Mercaptans (see Thiols) 
Metabisulfite (see Sulfur dioxide) 
Metafine (see Potassium ferrocyanide) 
Metal content, 338 
Metal depletion methods, 288 
chelating resins, 288 
potassium ferrocyanide, 287 
Metering, of juices, musts, 70-72 
2-Methoxy-3-isobutyl pyrazine, 50 
2-Methyl butanol, 150 
3-Methyl butanol, 150 
Methylene blue stain, cell counting, 569-571 
Metschnikowia, 117 
spoilage yeast, 361 
Microaerophilic bacteria, 263 
Microbes, wine, origins of, 353-354 (see also Wine 
microbes and Spoilage microbes) 
Microbiological control, 352-378 
Microbiological media, 566-567 
Microbiological spoilage, 352-378 
defined,353 
diagnoses, 354-356 
major classes, 357 
names of, 356-357 
origins of, 353 
prevention, (see also Stabilization), 354 
succession of microbes, 357 
Microbiological stabilization, (see also Sterile filtra­
tion, Sterile bottling) 
physical means, 362 
chemical means, 362-363 
Microclimate, 24 596 Index 
Microfiltration, 304 
immobilized agents, enzymes, 305 
recovery of bacteria, yeast, 305 
sterile juice, 304 
Microscope, requirements, 354 
Microscopic methods, cell counting, 569-571 
Mildew, 15, 34, 35 
Minerals, 
ash,40 
in yeast, 134 
Mitochondria, yeast, 126 
MOG (material other than grapes), 59 
Molds, 122 
Mold spoilage, 360-369 
Molecular S02 
effects of pH on, 450 
requirements for yeast, 455-457 
requirements for bacteria, 456-457 
Monitoring (see Fermentation) 
Montmorillonite (see Bentonite) 
Morphology, yeast, 105 
Most probable number, of spoilage organisms, 356 
Mousey 
cider, 372-373 
wine 
Brettanomyces, 365, 372-373 
Lactobacillus, 372-373 
Mousiness, 417 
MPN, (see Most probable number) 
Muscadine, 14, 15 
Muscats, muscatel, 49, 387, 397, 417 (see also 
Terpenoids) 
Must 
cooling, 70 
handling, 66, 68, 73 
measurement, 70 
pumps (see Pumps) 
transfer, 66 
Mute, 2, 8-9 
Mycelium, yeast, 116 
N 
NAD+ /NADH (see Nicotinamide dinucleotide) 
NADP+ /NADPH (see Nicotinamide dinucleotide, 
phosphate) 
Natural fermentations, 124 
Natural microflora, grapes and wineries, 122 
Natural settling, 76, 289 
Nicotiamide dinucleotide, 127 
malolactic, 270-272 
phosphate, 127 
Nisin, malolactic, 259 
Nitrate assimilation, 114 
Nitrogen, 10, 394, 406 
amino acid degradation, 154 
amino acid metabolism, 155 content of grapes, 46-48 
fertilization, 39, 46 
free amino (FAN), 81 
metabolism during fermentation, 153-167 
effect on glycolysis, 167 
higher alcohol formation, 164 
intracellular pools, 160 
preference, 159 
transport, 153, 157 
urea formation, 166 
utilization pathway, 161 
gas (see also Inert gas handling) 
sources, for bacteria, 255-256 
sources, for yeast, 46, 48, 132, 169 
transport in yeast, 153, 157 
Nonfiltered wine, spoilage organisms in, 356 
Nonspore formers, yeast, 115 
Nucleation (see Crystallization, rate) 
Nutrient:{s) 
o deficiency, 169 
malolactic, 255-256 
Oak (see also Barrels, Staves, Tree, Wood) 
aging (see Maturation) 
chips, 403 
composition, 401-402 
extraction,402,403,406 
flavor, 387, 391, 400-403 
lactone, 402 
phenols, 401, 402 
Oechsle scale, 194 
Off-flavors, 545 
Oidium 
Operations, sequence of, 6, 8-9 
Osmotic distillation, 97, 307 
Overcropping, 32-34, 54 
Oxidase enzymes 
phenol oxidase (PPO), 82 
laccase, 83, 218 
Oxidation, 41, 43, 388, 391, 406-415 (see also 
Browning, Polyphenol oxidase) 
capacity,410-411 
chemistry,412-414 
conditions, 410-411 
desirable levels, 411-412 
products, 413-415 
reactions, 413-415 
substrates, 407-410, 412-415 
Oxidation-reduction potentials, 391, 408, 410, 4 
Oxidative phosphorolation, 127, 130 
Oxygen, 406-407 
capacity, 407, 410-411 
consumption, in wines, 465, 466 
dissolved levels, in wine, 432 
malolactic, 256 p penetration of staves, cork, 405, 407, 422 
saturation, 432 
survival factors, 171 
uptake by juices, 83 
yeast requirements, 171 
yeast viability, 171 
Pad filtration (see Filtration) 
Paper chromatography, malolactic, 261 
Pantothenic acid, 87 
Pasteur 
discovery of basis of fermentation, 152 
effect, 134, 139, 141, 142 
microscopic drawings, 357 
naming of spoilages, 357 
optical activity, higher alcohols, 152 
Pectic enzymes, 89, 346 
Pectin, 41, 89 
Pediococci 
malolactic, 266-268 
nonmalolactic, 263 
Pentose phosphate pathway, 133 
Pentoses, 41 
Petite mutants, yeast, 126 
Petroff-Hausser counting chambers, 569-571 
pH, 25, 39, 41, 44, 54, 55, 57, 410 
changes in 
acidification, 534 
deacidification, 534 
malolactic, 255, 258 
precipitation of tartrates, 535-537 
effect on 
anthocyanin color, 233 
ascorbic acid activity, 84 
bacterial growth, 258 
browning of wine, 410, 413 
bitartrate ion form, 322 
malolactic, 369-370 
protein solubility, 339, 341-342 
protein-tannin solubility, 346 
sulfur dioxide activity, 449-451 
Phage, (see Bacteriophage) 
Phenethyl alcohol, 150, 151 
Phenols, 410, 411, (see also Anthocyanins, Caftaric 
acid, Catechins, Flavonoids, Tannins) 
browning due to, 406-410 
classification of, 41-46 
levels in grapes, 40, 41-46 
levels in press fractions, 93-94 
oak, 401, 402 
oxidation of, 407-415 
peroxide formation from, 408, 469 
Phenolase (see Polyphenol oxidase) 
Phloroglucinol, 408-409, 412 
Phylwxera, 15 Pichia, 114, 115, 117 
as spoilage yeast, 361 
Pigment patterns, 223 
Pinot noir, 225 
Piperidines, mousey wine, 372-373 
Piston pumps, 475 
Planning, 3-6, 14 
Planting, 14 
Plasma membrane, 126 
Plate heat exchanger, 507 
Plating of microbes, 355 
Plato scale, 195 
Poisson distribution, 356 Index 597 
Polyamine(s} synthesis pathway, 165 (see also 
Putrescine) 
Polyphenol oxidase, (Phenolase) 
activity, in grapes, 83 
browning of juices, 83, 409 
inactivation by heat, 88 
inhibition by bisulfite, 83 
oxygen uptake in juices, 83, 408 
Polysaccharides 
arabans, 345 
arabinogalactans, 345 
from fermentation, 345 
f3-glucan, 345 
in juices, 345 
in wines, 344 
mannan,345 
removal during ultrafiltration, 345 
rhamnogalacturans, 345 
ropy wines, 371 
Polyvinyl polypyrrolidone (PVPP), 286 
Pomace contact, 388 (see also Skins, Seeds) 
Pomace handling, 95 
Population distribution, 57-58 
Port-type wines, 397 
spoilage, 371-372 
Positive displacement pumps, 475 
Postmalolactic operations, 262 
Potassium, 39, 40, 54, 55, 323 
Potassium bitartrate, 25, 39, 54 
concentration product, 322, 327 
content, 321 
instability, 321 
saturation temperature tests, 331 
seeded conductivity tests, 328, 330 
Davis, 328-330 
others, 331 
solubility, 321 
stability tests, 327, 330-331 
stabilization processes, 331 
Potassium ferrocyanide, 287 
Potassium metabisulfite (see Sulfur dioxide) 
Potential alcohol, 195 
Pousse spoilage, 357 
PPO (see Polyphenol oxidase) 598 Index 
Pre coating filters, 297 
Preference (see Analysis, sensory, hedonic; 
Consumer preference) 
Premeur wines, (see Vins nouveaux) 
Premium wines, 385-386, 390, 422 
Preservation, 383 
Presses 
batch,91 
basket, 92 
bladder, 92 
membrane, 92-93 
moving-head, 92 
continuous, 92 
belt,94 
impulse, 94 
screw, 92, 94 
Pressing 
composition during, 93, 95 
direct, 219 
role of, 91 
samples 57 
whole clusters, 67, 219 
Pressure in bottled wine 
decrease in temperature, 440 
during freezing, 441 
increase in temperature, 440 
Prevention 
acetic acid bacteria spoilage, 374 
Brettanomyces spoilage, 365 
Problem fermentations (see Fermentation) 
Procyanidins, 46 (see also Tannins) 
Progressive cavity pumps, 476 
Proline, 25, 47-48 
degradation pathway, 163 
I-Propanol, 150 
Propyl alcohol, 150, 165 
Protease, immobilized, 346 
Protective colloids, 344 
Protein stability, 47 
assays, 341 
comparison of, 344 
factors influencing solubility, 339 
fining agents, 283 
fractions in wine, 339-340 
precipitation by tannin, 46 
stability testing, 341 
chemical tests, 341, 344 
ethanol precipitation test, 342, 344 
heat tests, 341, 344 
stabilization methods, 343 
Protein-tannin complexes, 289, 346 
Proton motive force (see Lactic acid efflux), 272 
Proton symport, 156-157, 158,272 
Proton yield, 535-536 
Pruning, 32, 33, 34 
Pseudomycelium, yeast, 116 
Pulsed-gel electrophoresis, yeast identification, 121 Pump(s) 
characteristics, 477 
types, 474 
Pumping and transfer calculations, 478 
Pump-over operation, 229 
Purification of wine microbes, 358-359 
Putrescine, 51-52 
PVPP (see Polyvinyl polypyrrolidone) 
Pyrazines, 46, 50 
Pyridines, mousey wine, 372-373 
Pyruvate carboxylase, 148 
Pyruvic acid 
Q binding kinetics, 461 
binding with bisulfite, 459 
effect on free S02 determination, 461 
formation during fermentation, 147-148 
malolactic, 270 
Quality, 33, 386, 410, 411, 422 (see also Analysis, 
sensory, hedonic; Consumer preference) 
Quality control 
membrane filtration, 435-437 
sterile bottling, 435-437 
Quarter sawing, 403-404 
Quercus, 400-401, 422 (see also Oak) 
Quick aging, 388, 424 
Quinates 
malolactic, 271,272 
Quinone(s), 407-408, 410, 412, 414 
bisulfite binding, 451 
formation, 450 
reduction of, 451 
R 
Racking arm, 77 
Raisin, raisining, 21 
Rates of 
anthocyanin extraction, 225-227 
anthocyanin polymerization, 233 
browning, wine, 442, 463 
cell growth, 142, 145 
cell death, 144, 458 
cell maintenance, 142 
change in density, 144 
crystallization, 325, 335 
enzyme inactivation, 88, 89 
ester hydrolysis, 178, 180 
ethanol formation, 144 
fermentation, 143-144 
fermentation heat release, 145 
filtration,309-312,313 
flavonoid extraction, 225 
oxygen consumption,juice, 83 
oxygen consumption, wine, 442-443, 465 sugar consumption, 142-143 
sulfur dioxide loss, wine, 442, 445 
tannin extraction, 227-230 
thiamin cleavage by sulfite, 462 
Red color, pigments (see Anthocyanins) 
Red table wine, 386, 410-411, 423 
aging, 233 
carbonic maceration, 236 
color extraction, 223-227 
component extraction, 221-224 
anthocyanins,223-224,225-227 
flavonoids, 225 
procyanidins, 223 
tannins, 223, 227-230 
extended maceration, 222 
fermentation temperature, 228 
fining, 235 
malolactic fermentation, 232 
malolactic style, 251-252 
pump-over operation, 229 
seed extraction, 227-230 
skin contact during fermentation, 222 
skin contact prior to fermentation, 222 
styles, 221 
thermovinification, 69, 236 
timing of pressing, 231 
Reducing sugars, in spoiled wine, 361 
Refrigeration 
direct expansion, 516 
fermentation loads, 201 
intermediate fluid, 516 
load requirements, 516 
off-peak generation, 519 
refrigerant temperature, 515 
refrigerants, 11, 514 
systems, 514 
temperature requirements, 515 
Respiration, 127 
Reverse osmosis 
acetic acid removal, 307 
ethanol removal, 306 
juice concentration, 307 
Regenerable fining agents, 285 
Regulations, 3-4, 5, 7, 35, 385, 418, Appendix E 
Pesticide, 35 
Replication, 542 
Research, 539-547 
Retsina, 400 
Rhodotorula, 115 
Riesling, 423 
Ripeness indices, 55 
Ripening, ripeness, 29, 38, 43, 53-54, 58 
Ropiness, (see Ropy wine) 
Ropy wine, 370-371 
Rose wine, 411, 423 
Rotary vacuum filters, 78 
Rotary vane pumps, 476 
Rootstock, 15,34 s 
Saccharomyces 
as spoilage yeast, 361-362 
bailii, 377-378 
bayanus, 102 
carbon metabolism, 126-141 
cereuisiae, defined, 102, 118 
dominance, 125 
ethanol tolerance, 125 
flavor production by, 181 
growth profile, 134 
mineral requirements, 134 Index 599 
nitrogen metabolism, 155-167 
phosphate metabolism, 134 
production of off-characters, 173-176 
species of, 117 
substrate preference 
carbon, 142 
nitrogen, 154-159 
sulfate metabolism, 167-169 
sulfur volatiles, 173 
vitamin requirements, 134 
Saccharomycodes, as spoilage yeast, 361 
S-Adenosyl methionine, 167 
Sake fermentation, high ethanol production, 171 
Samples, sampling, 52, 56 
controls, 539, 543 
fermentation, 206 
grape loads, 70, 72 
grapevines, 55-57 
representative, 54, 55-58, 401, 541-542, 546 
Sauvignon blanc, 417 
Schizosaccharomyces, 102-104, 107 
higher alcohols, 153 
Scion, 15, 21 
Scraped-surface heat exchanger, 509 
Screw caps, 420-421 
Second crop, 59 
Seeds, 35, 37, 48 
extraction from, 227 
grape berry size and, 40 
oil from, 48 
Sensory effect, higher alcohols, 150, 153 
Settling by gravity, 289 
Settling aids, 288-290 
Sequential contaminations, 370-371 
Shell-and-tube heat exchanger, 506 
Sherry, 391-393, 397, 411 (see also Solera) 
Shot berries, 28 
Silica sol, 288-289 
Shikimic acid, malolactic, 271 
Skin contact 
after red fermentation, 222 
during red fermentation, 222 
prior to red fermentation, 222 
with white juice, 69, 212 600 Index 
Skins, 47 (see also Pomace) 
Sluggish fennentations, ethanol toxicity, 170 
Sodium, 323 
Soil,24, 25-26 
Solera systems, 391-393, 420, 423 
Sorbic acid, 434 
lactic acid bacteria, 363 
microbial stabilization, 362-363 
Zygosaccharomyces, 363 
Sorbistat, (see Sorbic acid) 
Sparkling wine, 2, 21, 391 
base wine preparation, 219 
malolactic, 253 
Sparkolloid (see Alginates) 
Species of yeast, identification of, 117 
Specific gravity, 193 
Sperry equation, 309 
Spill-off, pyruvic acid, 270-272 
Spiral heat exchanger, 507 
Spoilage, (see also Spoilage microbes and 
Microbiological spoilage) 
Acetobacter, 373-376 
acrolein, 373 
amertume, 373 
bacilli, 377-378 
Brettanomyces, 364-369 
fortified wines, 371-372 
malolactic, 368-373 
mannite, 373 
mannitol,373 
microbiological, 352-378 
Port-type wines, 371-372 
molds, 360-369 
Saccharomyces, 361-362 
yeasts, 360-369 
wild, 360-361 
wine, 361-369 
Spoilage microbes 
concentration, 356 
identification, 357-358 
nonfiltered wine, 356 
on grapes, 353 
odors, controversial, 352 
origin of 
Brettanomyces scenario, 353-354 
Spoiled wine 
role of sugars, 361 
storage, 356, 357 
Spontaneous fennentations (see Fennentation, 
natural) 
Spores 
bacteria (see Bacilli) 
yeast, 104- 1 05 
Sporulation, yeast, 111-112 
Stability testing, 320, 341 
Stabilization, (see Microbiological stabilization) Stainless steels, 390, 394-398, 557-558, Appendix C 
cleaning, 210 
corrosion, 558 
cross reference, 558 
passivation, 557 
types, 557 
Standardization,417,419-420 
Starter cultures 
active dry yeast, 123 
malolactic, 256-257 
yeast, liquid, 124 
Static drainers (see Drainers) 
Statistical evaluation, 543, 546, 547 
Staves, 402-406 (see also Barrels, Oak, Wood) 
Stems, 59 
Sterile bottling, 429-431, 435 
bottling room, 437 
Brettanomyces, 368 
filling machines, 437-438 
malolactic, 258-259 
quality control, 435-437 
Sterile filtration, 428-429 
malolactic, 369-370 
Sterilization, bottling equipment, 429-430 
Sterols, survival factors, 171 
Stimulation of malolactic, 254-256,270,271 
Storage conditions 
temperature, 389-390, 442 
temperature variation, 442 
Stratification in tanks, 388, 398 
Streaking, of microbes, 359 
Stuck fennentation (see Fennentation) 
Style, 2, 4, 390, 418, 424 
Substrate level phosphorolation, 127 
Succession of spoilage microbes, 370-371 
Succinic acid, 41, 147 
Succinyl-CoA, 127 
Sugar(s), 35-37, 53 (see also Brix, Carbohydrates, 
Glucose, Fructose) 
accumulation, 36, 39 (see also Ripening) 
effect of suspended solids on Brix, 193 
effect on pKas, 531 
measurement (see Density scales) 
metabolism (see Glycolysis) 
oak wood, 402 
pentoses, 41 
preference by yeast (see Glucophilic) 
transport by yeast, 158-159 
Sulfate reduction pathway, 168 
Sulfhydryl compounds (see Glutathione; Hydrogen 
sulfide) 
Sulfides (see also Hydrogen sulfide) 
disulfides, 463 
thiols, 176 
Sulfite reductase, 173 
Sulfites (see Sulfur dioxide) 
Sulfur, 34-35, 174 
Sulfur assimilation pathway, 167-169 Sulfur dioxide, 10-11, 60, 408 
antimicrobial action, 84, 454 
bacteria, 456 
yeast, 455 
binding equilibria, 459 
binding kinetics, 461 
chemical properties, 454 
effect of pH on forms, 449 
inactivation of phenol oxidase, 82-83, 459 
inhibition of enzymes, 82, 459 
ionization of, 449 
loss after bottling, 442-443, 451, 467-468 
malolactic, 255,257, 369-370 
physical properties, 448 
preparations, 453 
reactions 
with oxygen, 464, 468 
with peroxide, 469 
with thiamin, 462 
with thiols, 463 
sensory threshold, 452 
solubility, 448 
sulfate formation, 464 
toxicity of, 10 
volatile loss, 467 
volatility, 451 
Zygosaccharomyces, 363 
Sulfur volatiles, 173 
Sunburn, 29, 34 
Sunlight, 34, 49, 51 
Superoxide,568 
dismutase,568 
Sur lies 
malolactic, 252 
white table wine, 217 
Survival factors 
active dry wine yeast, 124 
ethanol tolerance, 177 
growth factors, 172 
sterols, 171 
unsaturated fatty acids, 171 
Suspended solids 
effect on Brix measurement, 193 
effect on fermentation rate, 213 
Sweet wines, 21 (see also Dessert wines, botrytis) 
Syruped fermentation, 217 
T 
Tangential filtration (see Crossflow filtration) 
Tanks (see Barrels, Containers, Stainless steel) 
Tannin(s), 44-46, 223-224, 227, 412 (see also 
Ellagitannins, Phenols, Procyanidins) 
Tannin extraction, 227-228, 230 
Tartaric acid, 38, 39 (see also Acids, Acidity) Tartrate stability, 320, 335 
cold holding test, 328 
concentration products, 322, 335 
freeze test, 328 
rate approach, 325, 335 Index 601 
seeded conductivity tests, 328, 336-337 
solubility products, 322 
Taste Testing (see Analysis, sensory) 
Taxonomic identification examples, yeast, 109 
Taxonomic key, yeast genera, 105, 108 
Taxonomy of yeasts, 104-121 
TCA (see Tricarboxylic acid cycle) 
TCA (see Trichloroacetic acid test) 
TCA (see 2,4,6- Trichloroanisole) 
TDN (I,I,6-trimethyl-l,2-dihydronapthalene), 50, 
423 
Temperature, 46, 49, 51, 395-396 
aging, 389-390 
coefficient, QlO, 389 
control during fermentation, 200-204 
patterns in barrel fermentations, 202, 204 
effect on malolactic, 255, 257, 259 
effect on rates of reaction (see Rates) 
effect on viscosity, 482 
effect on wine volume, 209-210 
rate effects, reaction kinetics, 389-390 
Terpenoids, 49-50, 387, 423 
Thermodynamics, malolactic, 270 
Thermovinification, 69, 88 
Thiamin, 
deficiency in juice, 82 
reaction with sulfite, 462 
Thinning, 33 
Thiols 
ethane thiol, 176 
formation during fermentation, 176 
formation from disulfides, 463 
methane thiol, 176 
sensory thresholds, 176 
Tight bunging, 405-406 
Time-temperature effects, 382, 389-390, 423-424 
Titratable acidity, 523 
Tomato juice factor, 263 
Topping 
barrels, 405, 407 
vines, 34 
Trmtiaspora, 114, 115 
as spoilage yeast, 361 
Tourne spoilage, 357 
Toxicity (see Ethanol toxicity) 
Transport of bottled wine 
temperature, 442 
temperature variation, 442 
Transport of substrates 
amino acids, 157-158 
ammonia, 159 
proton symport, 156-157 
sugar, 158-159 
systems, 155-156 602 Index 
Tree (Oak), 400-402, 404 (see also Barrels, Oak, 
Staves, Wood) 
Trellising, 34 
Triazine, mousey wine, 372-373 
Tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, 127-131, 147, 149 
Trichloroacetic acid (TCA) test, 341 
2,4,6- Trichloroanisole, 422 
2,4,6- Trimethyl-l ,3,5-triazine, mousey wine, 
372-373 
Tyloses, 400-401, 404 
u 
Ullage, 210 
Ultrafiltration 
protein removal, 306, 343 
tannin removal, 306 
Unfiltered, (see Nonfiltered) 
Unit conversion tables, 548-550 
Unsaturated fatty acids, survival factors, 171 
Urea, 46 
and ethyl carbamate, 166 
from arginine, 167 
strain effect on, 167 
temperature effect on, 167 
Urease, hydrolysis of urea, 167, 347 
v 
Vacuoles in yeast, 126 
Vanillin, 402, 412 
Valves, 483 
Vapor pressure 
of sulfur dioxide solutions, 451-452 
of wine, 441 
Variety (of grape), varietal (see also Grape) 
characteristics of, 18-20, 30-32 
flavor families, 18-20, 34, 46, 49 
labeling, 16 
recommended, 20-24,31 
ripening, 29 
selection of, 17-24 
Velcorin, (see Dimethyl dicarbonate) 
Veraison, 35,44 
Viability of microbes tests for, 355 
Vin filant, 370-371 
Vine(s) (see also Grape and Variety) 
berry set, 28 
development, 27-29 
flowering, 27 
pollination, 28 
vigor, 34 
Vinegar, 2, 405, 407 (see also Acetic acid bacteria, 
spoilage) 
Vinegar bacteria, (see Acetic acid bacteria and Ace­
tobacter) Vineyard(s), 4 (see also Vine, Soil) 
area, 22 
differences among, 37-39 
light, 49, 51 (see also Sunlight, Trellising, 
Exposure) 
location, 24-32 
natural microflora, 122 
regional classification, 30-32 (see also 
Climatic regions) 
sampling, 52, 56-58, 
temperature, 27, 29, 30, 46, 49, 51 
Vineyard management, 32-35 
canopy management, 33, 34 
general, 32 
overcropping, 32-34, 54 
pesticides, 34 
sulfur, 34-35 
Vinhos Verdes, malolactic, 251, 253 
Vinifera, 15 
Vins nouveaux, malolactic, 251 
Vintage(s), 20, 24, 37-39, 46 
labeling, 420 
phenols among, 42 
Vinyl-phenol reductase, Brettanomyces, 365-366 
Viruses, 17, 33, 34 
Viscosity 
juice, 482 
must, 482 
water, 482 
wine, 482 
Vitaceae, 14 
Vitamins, 52, 134 
ascorbic acid, 82 
biotin, 82 
inositol, 82 
pantothenic acid, 82 
pyridoxine, 82 
thiamin, 82 
Viticulture, 13-16 
classification of regions, 30 
clones, 16 
environmental conditions, 27 
growing season, 27 
heat summation, 30 
land for vineyards, 25 
recommended varieties, 20, 31 
species of grapes, 14 
variety selection, 16, 17 
vineyard location, 24 
viruses, 16 
world, 24 
Vitis, 14, 15 
Vitis labrusca, 15 
Vitis vinifera, 15 
Vitispirane, 50, 423 
Volatile acidity (see Acetic acid) Volumetric expansion, 209-210 (see also Pressure in 
bottled wine) 
w 
Wallerstein media, Brettanomyces identification, 367 
Wastewater 
BOD (biochemical oxygen demand), 562 
characteristics, 561-562 
discharge limits, 562-563 
COD (chemical oxygen demand), 562 
SS (suspended solids), 562 
volume generated, 561 
Water, 26, 36, 40, 405-406 (see also Irrigation, 
Staves) 
Water utilization 
annual, 560-561 
harvest, 560-561 
Weather, 24, 27, (see also Climate, Vintage) 
Weber-Fechner relationship, 417 
Wet dog odor, Brettanomyces, 365 
White table wines, 386, 410-411, 422, 423 
aging, 216 
base wine for distillation, 220 
fermentation temperature, 220 
lees retention, 220 
base wine for sparkling wine, 219 
primary fermentation, 219 
secondary fermentation, 219 
fermentation temperature, 215 
late harvest style, 217 
fermentation temperature, 218 
laccase, 218 
nutrient deficiencies, 218 
malolactic fermentation, 215 
malolactic style, 252-253 
post fermentation handling, 216, 218 
skin contact, 69, 212 
sur lies, 216 
suspended solids, 75, 213 
Whole cluster handling, 67, 219 
Wild yeast, 122 
active dry, 123 
characteristics of, 123 
defined, 102-103 
Wine 
aging (see Aging) 
blending (see Blending) 
extract, 138- 139 
stability (see Protein stability; Tartrate stability) 
Winemaker, 13-14 
Winemaking, operations, 6 (see also Red table wines; 
White table wines) 
Wine microbes, cultivation, isolation, 358-359 
Winery 
arrangement, 4 
natural microflora, 122 size, 2 
type, 4 Index 603 
Wood, 400-403 (see also Barrels, Oak, Staves, Trees) 
Wine-related yeast 
defined, 102-103 
genera, 108 
listings, 102 
origins, 103 
species, 106-107 
y 
Yeast (see also Wine-related, Wild and Spoilage) 
active dry forms, 123-124 
adaptation to ethanol, 178 
autolysis, 391, 392 
Brettanomyces, 103, 104, 107, 112-114 
carbon metabolism, 126, 135 
cellular organization, 126 
chromosomes, 120 
culture 391, 392 
Debaryomyces, 103-104, 107, 112-113 
effect of ethanol, 172 
ethanol inhibition, 170- 1 72 
ethanol toxicity, 170-172 
genera, taxonomy of, 105, 108 
growth 
characteristics, 126- 135 
effect of ethanol, 172 
higher alcohol formation, 150, 153 
identification, 104-122 
indigenous, 103 
inoculation, 197 
Kloeckera, 109-110, 112 
Metschnikowia, 117, 361 
morphology, 126 
multilateral budding, 112-117 
natural, indigenous, 122-123 
nutrition, carbon and noncarbon, 126-135 
oxygen requirements, 70 
races, identification of, 117 
Saccharomyces (see Saccharomyces) 
Schizosaccharomyces, 102-104, 107 
species, identification of, 117 
specific growth rate, 142 
specific maintenance rate, 142 
sporulation, 111-112 
starter cultures, 123 
strain(s), 119-122 
assessment, 543 
flavor production from, 118 
gel electrophoresis, 121 
identification, 118 
karyotype analysis, 120 
taxonomy, 105, 108 
wild, 122 
wine-related, 102-103 
winery flora, 122 604 Index 
Yeast/bacteria interaction, malolactic, 254 
Yeast spoilage, (see also 360-369) 
Yield, 24, 31, 33 
ethanol, 195 
z 
Zeta potential, 295 
Zinc, 338 
Zinfandel, 386 Zygosaccharomyces, 103-104, 114, 140 
bailii, 364 
bisporus, 364 
described, 363-364 
grape juice concentrate, 363 
presumptive identification, 363 
sorbic acid, 363 
spoilage, 361,363-364 
sulfur dioxide, 363 
Zymomonas, 378 