Mopping the meat at the Annual 
Millheim Father’s Day BarbecueA far-flung family dynasty—each 
of the four Mikeska brothers built a barbecue restaurant in a different Texas town. Left to right: Jerry, Maurice, Rudy (deceased), and Clem. 
Photo by Will van OverbeekDr. Savell at Barbecue Summer Camp. 15
 FOREWORDForeword
My first encounter with Legends 
of Texas Barbecue Cookbook  by 
Robb Walsh occurred one sum-mer day about ten years ago in a Harry & David’s store in San Marcos, T exas. While my wife was shopping, I happened on  a display featuring the book.  I picked one up and began to browse through it. Impressed by the blend of history and recipes,  I somewhat absentmindedly carried it with me to the checkout counter and added it to my wife’s pile of merchandise. Now, look-ing back on that day, it’s amazing what a profound impact that impulse purchase had on how I have spent the last six years of my life.
I read the book when we got home 
and then put it on our cookbook shelf, ready to pick up again when a good barbecue recipe was needed. But  Legends of Texas Barbecue would end  
up playing a far greater role in my life  than that. 
In the spring of 2009, T exas A&M 
University asked the faculty to teach first-year seminars for incoming fresh-men. These one-hour courses for small groups would feature subjects the stu-dents might find interesting, but the real goal was to give ten to fifteen freshmen  
contact with professors who could help them make the transition from high school to college. 
The pilot program in 2008 included 
a class on baseball taught by a history professor. As a meat science professor, I immediately thought, if you can teach a course on baseball, why not a course on T exas barbecue? And I knew that I already had the perfect textbook for the class: Robb Walsh’s Legends of Texas 
Barbecue Cookbook . 
T exas Barbecue, now known as 
ANSC 117 in the T exas A&M course catalog, was first taught in the fall of 2009. During the semester, I got an e-mail from none other than Robb Walsh seeking assistance with a story  he was working on about fajitas. I told  him I recognized his name because  I was using his book for the barbecue class. Instead of answering his questions about the meat cuts used for fajitas, I invited him to come and visit the Meat Science Center for a hands-on demon-stration of the various cuts. 
When Robb showed up on campus, 
I asked him to come back and talk to the class. And he has come back every year since that first visit. The twenty-five lucky freshmen who take the course get to hear one of the most knowledgeable guest lecturers on barbecue around, and they also get Robb Walsh to personally autograph their textbooks.
If the story ended there, it would be 
great, but there is more. In May 2010,   
I invited Robb to the T exas A&M Beef LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 16
Center to participate in Beef 101, our 
three-day course on learning every-thing about beef, from the live animal to the final products. I also invited him to be a guest speaker at the university’s Rosenthal Lecture Series, to bring our students up-to-date on popular topics affecting the meat industry, such as nose-to-tail cookery. 
Whenever we talked, Robb told me 
about his dream of creating an orga-nization to preserve our food culture in Texas, much as the University of Mississippi–based Southern Foodways Alliance does for the South. I told Robb that T exas A&M would be glad to help, but that the Department of Animal Sci-ence did not do cultural and historical documentation—that we are, after all, agricultural subject-matter experts. 
Despite my protestations, in July 
2010, Robb talked me into providing the lecture hall at the Beef Center as a venue for the all-day meeting of fifty key leaders in the T exas food scene. That gathering gave birth to Foodways T exas, whose mission is to preserve, promote, and celebrate the diverse food cultures of T exas. The organization is now head-quartered at the University of T exas at Austin. Somehow, I ended up sitting on its first board of directors.
T o be successful, Foodways T exas 
needed to conduct educational pro-grams that appealed to the public. The T exas barbecue scene was undergoing a renaissance at the time, fueled by coverage from television shows and the rapid response that social media created whenever someone discovered a great 
new barbecue joint. 
Robb and I brainstormed a barbecue 
seminar and a hands-on workshop  that combined food culture and food science, with catering provided by star pitmasters. The logical place to hold  it was the T exas A&M Meat Science  Center, where we would have meat cutting labs and sides of beef and whole hogs at our disposal—not to mention  a bunch of meat science professors  and graduate students who were pas-sionate about barbecue.
The first Barbecue Summer Camp, 
a joint venture between Foodways T exas and T exas A&M University, was held  in June 2011. We thought it would appeal to backyard barbecue enthusi-asts, but we were humbled by the num-ber of cook-off winners, master chefs, and other experts who showed up. 
Enthusiastic press coverage, blog 
write-ups, and just plain word of mouth resulted in sellouts every time the seminar has been held. T o satisfy the demand for barbecue instruction, we started Camp Brisket in January 2013, which, as the name implies, focuses on this most difficult of all cuts. Tickets for Camp Brisket 2015 sold out in two minutes.
Thanks to the give and take between 
instructors and some of the most know- ledgeable students of barbecue imag-inable, Barbecue Summer Camp and Camp Brisket are keeping on top of changes in T exas barbecue and pro-viding help in understanding new 17
techniques, new equipment, and newly  
popular cuts of meat. In this second edition of Legends of Texas Barbecue 
Cookbook , Robb Walsh has covered 
much of this new information—a task made easier by his vantage point from a front-row seat at every Barbecue Sum-mer Camp held to date. 
Robb is my favorite food writer 
because of the way his stories about the culture and history of foods breathe life into the recipes he details. Few writers have this magic. Enjoy the journey that this new edition continues, take pleasure in the stories, and gain the cooking insights you need to tackle each recipe with the confidence of a veteran pitmaster!
JEFFREY W. SAVELL
University Distinguished Professor, Leader, Meat Science Section, 
FOREWORDLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 18
Department of Animal Science,
Texas A&M University 
Introduction
TEXANS BARBECUE BEEF. 
THESE THREE WORDS ARE OFTEN USED TO SUM UP THE TEXAS  
barbecue experience. I understand why this knee-jerk explanation has become so popular; it reduces a long, complicated saga into a pat one-liner that no one can really disagree with. The real story of T exas barbecue is far more bewildering. 
Southern barbecue is a proud thoroughbred whose bloodlines  
are easily traced. T exas barbecue is a feisty mutt with a whole lot  of crazy relatives. The Southern barbecue style has remained largely unchanged over time. T exas barbecue is constantly evolving.
Before the Civil War, African slaves 
on the plantations of East T exas, Hispan-ics in the Lower Rio Grande Valley, Ger-man immigrants in the Hill Country, and subsistence farmers of Scots-Irish descent all had their own meat-cooking styles. The meats were equally varied, including beef, pork, mutton, goat, venison, squir-rel, and any number of others. When the T exas cattle industry emerged after the war, beef became cheap and commonly available, and it was soon a central part of everybody’s cooking. But beef is hardly the whole story. 
Tex a n s  ba rb e c ue  p ork.
When visitors from the Carolinas and T ennessee come to T exas, they are generally astonished to find that we eat a lot of pork here as well as beef brisket. That’s the problem with the beef gener-alization. Yes, we barbecue beef brisket, but we’re also fond of other cuts. East 
T exas barbecue is a proud variant of the African-American Southern barbecue tradition, and although both consider pork their crowning glory, cooks in East T exas have their own way of doing things. Southern pork would never be served without barbecue sauce, but some East Texans like slow-smoked pork  ribs with a little salt and pepper—and not a speck of sauce.
T exans barbecue sausage. 
Now there’s a T exas barbecue item you don’t hear much about. The concept  of barbecued sausage seems to have originated in the state’s German belt  in the 1800s. The smoked sausage produced by Czech and German meat markets in that area would have been virtually indistinguishable from the smoked sausage that butchers produced 19
 INTRODUCTIONin central Europe. 
Who decided it was barbecue?  
It was most likely one of those accidents that occur when cultures bump into  one another. Itinerant farmworkers discovered the smoked meats in German butcher shops and, in the absence of any better explanation, they declared it to  be barbecue. So it was. 
And smoked sausage is still consid-
ered barbecue in every hamlet in the old German belt—from Smolik’s in Cuero to City Market in Schulenburg to Dozier’s Grocery in Fulshear. Little combination meat markets and barbecue joints crank out an endless variety of smoked sau-sages: links, rings, and uncut coils; garlic sausage; German sausage with mustard seeds; all-pork sausage; all-beef sausage; sage sausage; Czech sausage with coarse black pepper; wet sausage; beef and pork sausage; and, of course, the perennial favorite, Elgin hot guts. 
T exans barbecue  
cows’ heads.
This tradition traces its origins back  
to the Mexican barbacoa  style, only 
it evolved into something completely different in T exas. Now, you might say that a cow’s head cooked in an oven isn’t really barbecue. But then you would have to define barbecue, which is always a tricky proposition.
Grilled shish kebab? Grilled salmon 
steaks? That’s not barbecue in T exas—but smoked bologna is. It’s served at the Railhead Smokehouse in Fort Worth. 
Steaks on the gas grill? No way! But what if you cook a double-cut sirloin over mesquite coals in an enclosed pit?  Sure! That’s the way it’s done at Cooper’s in Llano—definitely a legitimate style  of T exas barbecue. 
Confused yet? Good, because that’s 
just the tip of the iceberg. I think it’s fair to say that T exas has more variations in its barbecue styles than any other state. And more disagreements about them.
Truth be told, T exans barbecue all 
kinds of things in lots of different ways.
This book wasn’t written to claim 
some kind of barbecue supremacy for Te x a s.  Te n ne s s e e,  t he  C a rol i n a s,  a nd  other states have fine barbecue, and most T exans enjoy it when they visit those places. The intention of this book is to offer a broader view of what barbe-cue really means across the Lone Star State. And to give a little recognition to the African- T exans, Mexican- T exans, German- T exans, and Anglo cowboys and farmers whose culinary traditions have melded to form the cultural icon that is modern Texas barbecue.
I hope these recipes and tips preserve 
a little T exas folklore and also serve  as an invitation to join in and barbecue T exas-style in your own backyard. Please enjoy this book exactly the way it was written—in the shade of a tall tree with the smoker going.Women outside Louie Mueller 
Barbecue, Taylor, 1982.
Photo by Michael MurphyDRINK
COCACOLA
BARBECUELOUIE
LOUIE
LOUIELOUIERoasting meats on the 
barbecue (circa 1900).1LEGENDARY 
BARBECUE 
The Evolution of the PitForty-two cattle were barbecued 
for a “Get Together” to bring farmers and townspeople together, Victoria, 1921. (Note the axles used as crossbars.)LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 28
he pitmaster squints into 
the smoke as he opens the giant steel door. From your place in line, you watch him fork and flip the juicy, black beef clods and sizzling pork loins. Y our heart beats faster as he reveals a dozen sausage rings hissing and spitting in 
the thick white cloud. Slowly, the sweet oak smoke makes its way to you, carrying with it the aroma of peppery beef, bacon-crisp pork, and juicy garlic sausage. Y our mouth starts watering. 
You swallow hard. Your stomach rears back and lets 
out a growl. You’re in a frenzy by the time you get to  
the head of the line, where the hot meats are being sliced and weighed. You order twice as much as you can eat. You carry it away on a sheet of butcher paper, with an extra sheet tucked underneath for a plate. 
Welcome to T exas barbecue. We love to eat it. We 
love to make it. And we love to argue about it. We have competing theories on the etymology and the definition  of the word and on which characteristics make it uniquely T exan. We don’t agree on the kind of wood, the need  for sauce, the cut of meat, or which part of the state does it best. And we all have our favorite pitmasters. But we all agree that non- T exans don’t understand it.
TPitmaster Roy Perez at the  
old Kreuz Market. 
Photo by Wyatt McSpaddenLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 30
Traditional barbecue definitions don’t make sense 
here. “Barbecue is always served with a distinctive sauce,” say some. Not in T exas, where the sauce is on the side and many connoisseurs elect to eat their smoked meats with no sauce at all. “Barbecue means slow cooking over the low heat of a wood or charcoal fire,” say others. Sorry. Some of the best smoked meat in the Lone Star State is cooked at 500˚F . 
So what is Texas barbecue exactly? If we can’t quite 
agree on what it is, at least we can agree on where it came from. Looking at T exas barbecue history may  be the easiest way to understand it.
If you include roasting meat on an open fire in your 
definition of barbecue, then the earliest T exans to barbecue were the Caddo Indians, who cooked venison and other game here thousands of years ago. They were followed by the Spanish shepherds, who spit-roasted kid goat and lamb al pastor (shepherd  style) on the 
South T exas plains, starting in the 1600s. Mexican barbacoa, meat sealed in maguey leaves and buried in a 
Men in suits waiting for  
barbecued mutton cooking on  an open pit, 1921. LEGENDARY BARBECUE 31
pozo  (pit) full of hot rocks, was common 
in South T exas before the earliest Anglo settlers began to arrive in the 1820s. In modified forms, it can still be found today at barbacoa eateries like Vera’s Backyard Bar-B-Que in Brownsville.
The largest influx of Southerners 
was the group called the Old Three Hundred, 297 primarily wealthy plan-tation owners who, in 1824, populated Stephen F . Austin’s colony, which he had acquired through a Mexican colonization grant. Attracted by the rich soil of the river bottom lands of the Brazos Valley, these cotton planters replicated the culture of the Old South in T exas, including Southern-style  barbecue. They brought their slaves with them, and African-Americans became the earliest pitmasters in Texas, just as they had been in the rest of the South.
Pits were typically three feet deep, 
twenty-five feet long, and three feet across. Whole sheep, goats, pigs, and steers were slaughtered on the spot,  cut into pieces, and cooked over oak or hickory coals while being continuously basted. The standard cooking time  was twenty-four hours. Southern-style pit barbecue can still be seen today  in the community barbecues held in Austin County, not far from the area where Austin’s colony was once headquartered. 
The earliest mention of T exas 
barbecue in print is from an 1832 handbill advertising a Shelby County revival meeting, where free barbecue 
Civic Barbecues
Big public barbecues were held for all kinds of 
reasons in the early days of the Lone Star State. In fact, no civic celebration was complete without one. 
In 1853, the town of Stafford gave away free 
barbecue to the public to celebrate becoming a stop on the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado Railway. 
In 1860, Sam Houston spoke at the Great  
American Barbecue, a political rally thrown by the American Party in Austin. All citizens of the state  were invited to attend and eat for free.
In 1891, the citizens of Whitney, a town with a 
declining population, held a barbecue to promote the beneﬁts of citizenship. They gave away thirty-ﬁve hundred pounds of barbecue.
In 1926, Edgar Byram Davis closed what was 
probably the biggest oil deal in the state up to  that time. He got $12 million (half of it in cash) for his Luling oil holdings, and he held a free barbecue  to celebrate. Attendance estimates run as high as  thirty-ﬁve thousand.
In 1941, at his inauguration celebration, 
Governor W. Lee “Pappy” O’Daniel set up pits on the grounds of the capitol building in Austin and gave away barbecue to all comers.
In 1964, President Lyndon Johnson hosted the 
president-elect of Mexico at a state dinner at the  LBJ Ranch in Johnson City. Catered by Walter Jetton, this dinner for two hundred ﬁfty was report-edly America’s ﬁrst ofﬁcial barbecue state dinner. 
In 1991, the pitmasters at XIT Rodeo and 
Reunion in Dalhart cooked eleven thousand pounds of beef in open pits dug with backhoes. The meat was served to twenty thousand guests. The XIT barbecue is still held every year. 
Overview of the crowd at the bar-
becue on the state capitol grounds celebrating Governor “Pappy” O’Daniel’s inauguration in 1941. The large circles are cowboy hats, the little white circles are plates.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 34
was handed out to all comers. Barbecue had become 
an integral part of the Protestant religious rallies that began in the late 1700s in Kentucky and spread religion across the frontier. The camp meetings were usually held from Thursdays through Sundays, with free barbecue all weekend.
Old-world meat smoking was brought to Central 
T exas by German and Czech butchers during an  era of intense European migration that began in the 1830s and reached its height around 1890. The German meat markets sold fresh meats and smoked their leftovers in enclosed smokers, as they had done in the Old Country. They were probably astonished when migrant farmworkers began the tradition  of eating that smoked meat on the spot. When food 
Governor W. Lee “Pappy’ 
O’Daniel poses with a mop while pretending to cook barbecue in an open pit on the capitol grounds during his inauguration celebration, 1941.LEGENDARY BARBECUE 35
Linguistic Lore
Over the years, some pretty 
fantastic etymologies for the word barbecue  have been 
advanced. Two cookbooks  I’ve seen recount the tale of a wealthy Texas rancher who fed all of his friends whole sheep, hogs, and cattle roasted over open pits. In one cookbook, the rancher’s name is Bernard Quayle, and in the other, it  is Barnaby Quinn, but both describe the branding iron of the ranch as having the initials B. Q. with a straight line underneath. Texas ranches are named for their brands, and a straight line is called  a bar. Thus, the “bar B. Q.” became synonymous with ﬁne eating—or so the story goes. 
The late Corpus Christi 
barbecue legend Joe Cotten used to tell journalists that the word barbecue  came from  
the French phrase barbe à 
queue , meaning “from the 
beard to the tail.” The phrase supposedly refers to the fact that the whole animal is roasted. The reporters passed along Joe’s wisdom to many readers, and this explanation is still widely circulated. The Oxford English Dictionary  calls this particular etymology “absurd conjecture.” cooked in earthen pits was judged unsanitary by early 
health inspectors after the reforms of the Progressive Era in the early 1900s, the indoor German smokers became the model for barbecue restaurants. Which is why many people consider the old meat markets to be quintessential T exas barbecue joints, despite the fact that German smoked meats and sausages aren’t really American barbecue. 
T exas departed from the Southern “pork only” 
tradition, as well. After the Civil War, beef became the meat most characteristic of T exas barbecue. In the days before refrigeration, barbecuing beef meant  getting enough people together to make killing a whole steer worthwhile. When that happened, it was quite a party. Although the ultimate in Southern bar-becue was cooking a whole hog, cooking a whole steer was the ultimate in T exas barbecue. 
Because you could feed so many people with a 
whole steer, T exas barbecues started out big—and then they got bigger. T exans being T exans, barbecues became competitions, and each barbecue became an effort to outdo all others. This tradition lives on in such events as the XIT Rodeo and Reunion in Dalhart, where tens of thousands of people gather each year to attend the “world’s largest free barbecue.” 
The Barbecue Barons
Walter Jetton of Fort Worth was the single most 
influential figure in T exas barbecue history. For many years, Jetton held the record for barbecue catering,  having fed twelve thousand people at one of his “chuck wagon dinners.” 
During Lyndon Johnson’s presidency, Jetton 
became nationally famous for his barbecues at the LBJ ranch. In 1965, Pocket Books published Walter  
Jetton’s LBJ Barbecue Cook Book . In the book he 
advised: “T o barbecue, you need a pit . . . This doesn’t  have to be a hole in the ground, and it definitely shouldn’t be one of those backyard creations with  
TLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 36
a chimney.” A fire built in a cinder block enclosure 
was perfect in his view. 
But Jetton actually had two different barbecue 
styles—one for catering and another at his epony-mous restaurant in Fort Worth. For chuck wagon events, Jetton cooked meat outdoors in cinder-block pits directly over the coals for eighteen to twenty-four hours. But that wouldn’t work in a restaurant. 
County health departments regulate barbecue 
pits in T exas food service establishments. The regulations, and how strictly they are enforced, have varied widely from county to county since the laws first hit the books during the sanitation crusades of the Progressive Era in the early 1900s.
The brick smokers of the old German-belt meat 
markets, some built more than a hundred years ago, offered a design that was adopted by other barbecue restaurants once the outdoor pits were outlawed. But the mystique of African-American barbecue pitmasters continued—some restaurants proudly Legendary Fort Worth  
barbecuer Walter Jetton. 
LEGENDARY BARBECUE 37
advertised that they had black pitmasters manning 
the indoor barbecue pits.
 In a 1956 story in the Saturday Evening Post 
titled “He’s the Kingpin of the Barbecuemen,” Jetton introduced the reporter to an African-American pit-master named Ethan Boyer, “a dignified, sixty-year-old Negro” who supervised cooking in the brick pits at the restaurant. Jetton called Boyer, who had been with him for thirty years, his “barbecue expert.”
Mechanization 
In 1946, a machinist named Leonard McNeill won 
a tiny restaurant near Lenox Street in Houston in a game of craps. He renamed it the Lenox Bar-B-Q. By the 1960s, the restaurant was catering for thousands of guests at a time, and McNeill found himself com-peting head to head with the legendary Walter Jetton. In 1967, Ann Valentine, food editor of the Houston 
Post , wrote an article about the two mega-caterers 
titled “The Barbecue Barons.”
McNeill prepared food at a restaurant, where he 
had to abide by the sanitary codes. But ordinary brick barbecue smokers couldn’t accommodate jobs the size of those that the Lenox Bar-B-Q was being asked to do. So the machinist-turned–barbecue baron intro-duced barbecue to the age of mechanization.
McNeill bought an enormous bread-rising oven 
from the Rainbow Bread bakery. The oven had a rotat-ing mechanism inside that moved the dough through a timed cycle. McNeill converted this machinery into a mechanized wood-smoke rotisserie that could cook three thousand pounds of meat at one time. 
Today, what’s left of McNeill’s barbecue joint on 
Harrisburg Boulevard in Houston is run by Erik Mrok, whose father was a friend of McNeill’s. Con-struction of Houston’s light rail line forced Lenox Barbecue & Catering, as it is now known, to move out of its dining room, which was bulldozed. The res-taurant kitchen still uses rotisserie ovens to produce barbecue for take-out and catering. Linguistic Lore
BABRACOT
According to the Oxford English 
Dictionary  entry, the English 
word barbecue  derives from the 
Spanish word barbacoa,  which 
is in turn a variation of babracot, 
a word that comes to us from the Taíno language, part of the Arawakan language family of the Caribbean. In Taíno, however, the term babracot  was used for 
the framework of green sticks that formed the grill, rather than for the cooking itself.
The Caribbean style of slow 
smoking on a grate over coals was brought to the Carolinas by African slaves in the 1600s and became the basis for Southern-style barbecue. Advocates of open-pit barbecue once argued that this was the only true bar-becue. But nowadays, German-style meat smoked in an enclosed pit, Mexican cabrito al 
pastor  roasted by an open ﬁre, 
and ribs grilled over direct heat all fall within somebody’s deﬁni-tion of Texas barbecue. 
All Texans agree, however, 
that hamburgers and hot dogs are not barbecue. Mr. White. A roadside barbecue 
stand operator in Palestine, 1981. 
Photo by Scott Van OsdolLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 40
It’s not hard to figure out where these 
T exas-style portable pits came from. Some of them were just oil drums cut in half, with legs and handles welded on. Others were elaborate affairs with multiple smoke chambers, separate fireboxes, chimneys, flues, and grease drains. But all of them were made  from oil-field parts. 
“We made the chambers out of 
used oil pipe. You didn’t want to know what used to be in your barbecue pit in those days,” laughs Wayne Whitworth, founder of Houston’s Pitt’s & Spitt’s, one of the most famous makers of bar-becue equipment in T exas. 
“We were metal fabricators; we did 
big oil-field contracts. We just built barbecue pits for fun,” Whitworth says. There were a lot of barbecue enthusiasts working in the East T exas oil fields.  And with all that welding equipment and those parts just lying around, temptation was hard to resist. “If you had all the money it has cost Brown & Root [an oil-field engineering firm] to build barbecue pits, you could feed the world,” Whitworth chuckles. 
Although making barbecue pits was 
once a hobby for the oilman, it became a successful new career. In the early 1980s, when the price of oil fell from thirty dollars a barrel to under ten dollars, the T exas economy went into a tailspin.  “In 1983, when oil went to hell, I had my workers making barbecue pits just to keep them busy,” Whitworth remembers. 
“Nowadays, we can’t keep up with 
the demand,” Whitworth says. “We The barbecue rotisseries are of a 
type patented by Herbert Oyler in 1968. Oyler, who owned a barbecue restaurant in Mesquite, also started by tinkering with a barbecue rotisserie made from a bread-rising oven. Whether he was working independently, in competition, or in cooperation with McNeill is  not known. 
Oyler’s invention is a steel barbecue  
pit with a rotisserie inside. It has an electric carousel, though no heating ele-ments. It is fueled exclusively with wood burned in a remote firebox. The advan-tage of the rotisserie is that the meat gets basted with dripping fat, but it is cooked with wood smoke. Although it isn’t exactly an old-fashioned barbecue pit,  the results still depend on time, temper-ature, and the talent of the pitmaster.  Oyler pits, made today by J&R Manu-facturing, are used by well-known barbecue establishments throughout  the state. Bewley pits, made by A. N. Bewley in Dallas, are similar in design.
The Portable Pit
The oil business, which took off in the 1950s, had a big impact on T exas barbe-cue. Oilmen were not only notoriously fond of smoked meat but also fascinated by barbecue technology. 
The backyard charcoal grill of 
the 1960s was fine for grilling steaks, hamburgers, and hot dogs, but it wasn’t suited to T exas barbecue. In the 1970s and 1980s, a larger, enclosed style of barbecue smoker began to proliferate. LEGENDARY BARBECUE 41
country. A handful of young pitmasters 
is going back to the basics in hip, new barbecue joints in major cities across the state. They are the darlings of the national press, and the luscious new style of meats they’re serving is reviving  the reputation of T exas barbecue. 
Austin’s Aaron Franklin is the best-
known of the bunch. In 2015, he became the first barbecue pitmaster to win a James Beard Award, an honor given to the nation’s top chefs. Franklin Barbecue in Austin was named the best barbecue joint in the country by Bon App étit in 2011.
A second-generation barbecue man 
(his parents once owned a barbecue joint in Bryan), Franklin pioneered the trend of buying premium meat, charging higher prices, and serving a new style  of barbecue. This brisket is fattier, has a crispy bark, is cooked to over 200˚F ,  and is sliced as it’s served. Franklin is also expanding the genre. He not only serves a Southern-style pulled pork sand-wich but also tops his pork and chopped  brisket sandwiches with Carolina-style coleslaw.
Justin Fourton at Pecan Lodge in  
the Deep Ellum area of Dallas is famous for his Fred Flintstone–size beef ribs:  a single rib weighs 1½ pounds or more and sells for as much as thirty dollars  (see page 245). His wife, Diane, makes Southern sides like collard greens and a banana pudding inspired by her aunt’s recipes. 
Ronnie Killen at Killen’s Barbecue in 
Pearland, a southern suburb of Houston, is also known for USDA Prime brisket, don’t use old pipe anymore; we use new 
steel these days. And we can build them as big or as small as you want them.” Pitt’s & Spitt’s is now run by Robert Smith and Ryan Zboril, and the com-pany shows off its new designs at barbe-cue cook-offs all over the country.
Stainless Steel and Gas
The invention of the high-tech stainless-steel barbecue oven heated by gas or electricity made opening a barbecue joint easy. A few logs are added for smoke, and the cooking process is electronically controlled. The ovens are convenient, they require no expertise to operate, and they avoid problems with air-pollution regulations. 
The easy-bake oven of the barbecue 
world turned barbecue into fast food and gave rise to chains, franchise operations, and a host of mediocre barbecue joints located in shopping centers, in strip malls, and at highway exits across T exas and the rest of the South.
In order to compete with other strip-
mall restaurants, modern barbecue joints offered barbecue at any time of the day, which meant the cooked meats were held in steam tables or ovens for hours. When the meat ran out, refrigerated barbecue cooked the day before was reheated and sliced. The result was a general decline in the quality of T exas barbecue.
Back to the Basics
Recently, a back-to-the-roots movement in T exas barbecue has captured the attention of barbecue lovers across the LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 42
giant beef ribs, pulled pork, pork belly, 
and home-style side dishes like creamed corn made from fresh corn off the cob. 
The CorkScrew BBQ trailer in north 
Houston is run by the husband-and-wife team of Will and Nichole Buckman, who, not too long after opening, found themselves installing a new J&R Oyler smoker with an eighteen-hundred-pound capacity to keep up with the demand.
What all of these places have in 
common are expensive grades of meat, wood-burning pits, fattier brisket with crunchy bark—and long lines of ’cue hounds waiting for the kitchen to open. The line isn’t just a sign of popularity, however. Aaron Franklin suggests that having people waiting in line is critical  to the quality of the barbecue. 
When every bit of meat is carved 
as it is ordered, fresh off the smoker, every customer gets a juicy slice. That’s the way it was done years ago, before high-tech barbecue existed. Just ask Vencil Mares at Taylor Cafe. The dean of T exas pitmasters slices his brisket just like he did when the place first opened in 1948—with a layer of fat on top. “You cut that fat off and you’re cutting all the seasonings off,” he told barbecue writer Daniel Vaughn. 
The move away from fatty barbe-
cue was part of the same national trend that replaced butter with margarine in the middle of the last century. In 1952, in Fort Worth’s Star-Telegram , T exas 
writer J. Frank Dobie observed that “the barbecuers of restaurants . . . all agree that in recent years demand for lean meat is making men and women alike into 
Jack Sprats. Fat meat is much more easily barbecued than lean meat, and the old-timers all wanted fat meat. Young people nowadays don’t want fat, and lots not young don’t either.”
While the new breed of pitmasters is 
getting a lot of press, they prepare only a tiny percentage of the barbecue con-sumed in T exas. But lots of traditional barbecue joints have taken notice, so that more and more pitmasters are offering a choice of lean meat or brisket with the fat attached. And you don’t even have to queue up to get it.
Who is willing to wait in line for a 
plate of fatty barbecue? You probably won’t be surprised to hear that it’s the same gang of hipster food lovers who made chashu  ramen, Wagyu hamburg-
ers, and all kinds of pork belly dishes popular. 
According to the new “fat means 
flavor” thinking, fatty barbecue tastes better, too. Fatty end brisket, incred-ibly marbled beef ribs, and the new Southern-style pulled pork are what hip young barbecue customers are after. We have come full circle. In the 1950s, it was the young customers who demanded leaner barbecue; in the early twenty-first century, it is the young customers who think “fat is where it’s at.” Austin pitmaster Aaron Franklin.WHAT I LEARNED  
AT BARBECUE  SUMMER CAMP2Hands-on meat-cutting 
demonstration at Barbecue Summer Camp.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 48
arbecue Summer 
Camp and its winter counterpart, Camp Brisket, are annual weekend-long barbecue seminars. Created by Foodways Texas, a nonprofit headquar-tered at the University of T exas at Austin, in cooperation with the T exas A&M Meat Science Center, a part of the T exas A&M 
University Department of Animal Science, the seminars touch on barbecue culture and history before delving deep into butchering and barbecue cookery. 
There are hands-on classes in equipment, fuels, 
seasonings, cooking techniques, food safety, and ele-
mentary cattle and hog anatomy. Classes are taught by professors of the meat science center, top T exas pitmasters, and experts from Foodways T exas. At lunchtime, attendees eat what they cook—and some of the dinners are catered by the best barbecue joints in the state.
Barbecue Summer Camp and Camp Brisket both 
feature an early-morning demonstration of barbecue rigs and the latest in hardware. Everything from sim-ple Webers and barrel smokers to the most elaborate cook-off competition trailers are there to play with. 
B49
BARRELS (TEXAS HIBACHIS  
OR BIG UGLY BARRELS)
From the first time I went to Kreuz 
Market and saw those big oak logs blazing, I dreamed of the day when  I could start burning hardwood myself. Wood chips are fine, but I wanted a real barbecue unit—something I could throw logs into—so I bought my first barrel smoker. Also known as a T exas hibachi, a barrel smoker is a 55-gallon metal drum turned on its side and sawed in half. Legs and handles are welded onto it to make it easy to use. A barrel smoker gives you enough room to burn hardwood, or at least to throw a few logs onto a charcoal fire. If you get two or three years out of a barrel smoker, you’re doing fine. The tops never close evenly, the grills burn through, and sooner  or later the barrel rusts out or the welds break, which is probably why barrel smokers are not shipped to other parts of the country.
Because the fuel sits directly on the 
floor of the barrel, the fire can be hard  to start and quick to go out. That’s why  I added a smaller rectangular grate on the bottom of the barrel. It’s a 12-by-18-inch length of extended metal and it sits about 3 inches off the bottom, improving the airflow significantly. 
Some of the top cook-off competitors 
in the state swear that the T exas hibachi is the perfect barbecue unit. Many similar barbecue rigs are available, often made out of sheet metal but designed on the same premise: the fire is on one end and the meat is on the other. With a few HOME 
BARBECUE RIGS
You don’t have to spend a lot of money 
on equipment to make great-tasting barbecue. If, however, you are in the 
mood to spend a lot of money, there’s a really cool barbecue rig out there with your name on it. Here are some ideas  as to what’s available.
WEBER 
While there are several bullet-shaped water smokers on the market, the Weber Smokey Mountain Cooker is the only one that comes highly recommended. It’s a water smoker with a large water pan and a steel door on the side to allow refueling. The 18½-inch size is just big enough to handle a brisket; the 22½-inch size can accommodate even more meat.
Cook-off competitors have won 
contests with Weber Smokey Mountain water smokers, but only after making a few adjustments. After-market suppli-ers sell replacement grill thermometers (see Thermometers, page 58), gaskets to improve the seal on the fuel door, a hinge to hold the lid up, and extensions to raise the height of the cooker, along with lots of other intriguing gizmos.Weber products are widely available.
CONTACT: weber.com 800-446-1071.
WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMPLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 50
brake lights, and T exas license plates. 
My daughters, Katie and Julia, have birthdays a few days apart in early April. When Katie turned four and Julia turned two, we had a huge birthday party to which we invited over a hundred people. Of course, the two toddlers couldn’t have cared less about the whole affair, except for the piñata. It was really just a good excuse to rent a barbecue trailer. For the two days that the trailer was parked in the driveway, with its giant counterweighted steel doors and a quarter cord of aged oak stacked neatly along its edge, I was in barbecue heaven. I cooked a whole cabrito  (baby goat), four 
briskets, ten pounds of venison sausage  I had stuffed myself, and a couple of pork butts. Then I smoked a big ham to have the next weekend for Easter. 
You can get a barbecue trailer at 
many rental centers in T exas, provided your pickup has a trailer hitch. You see barbecue trailers at shade-tree barbecue stands by the side of the road, at catered events, and at barbecue cook-offs.
Barbecue cook-off teams build their 
own custom trailers and take them on the road for the summer cook-off circuit. Some of them are pretty impres-sive. Pitts & Spitts demonstrates a trailer with built-in fans wired to an electronic thermostat, so that when  the heat gets too low, the fans kick in.  Now that’s a great combination of high and low tech.
CONTACT: Pitt’s and Spitt’s at 800-521-2947  
or www.pittsandspitts.com for a catalog. adjustments (like adding a fuel grate), 
these smokers work great. 
CONTACT: Found outside of grocery stores, 
hardware stores, and feed stores;  also available as a do-it-yourself kit for  home welders. 
OFFSET BARBECUE PITS
For my fortieth birthday, my former 
w i fe  b ou g ht  me  a  bi g,  bl a c k ,  he av y-g au ge-  steel barbecue pit made by Smoke- master. The firebox and grill are on one side, and a separate smoke chamber big enough to hold a brisket, five pounds of sausage, and a couple of chickens is on the other side. The smoke chamber has a built-in thermometer on top, and there is a drain plug for cleaning on the bottom. Underneath the grill is a drawer to remove the ashes, and the chimney has  a damper to control the smoke flow. You can grill in it, you can smoke in it, you can burn all the logs you want. It cost $650 back then; similar units now sell for around $1,500. My pit is more than twenty years old and in use constantly, so you have to figure that a pit like this is an excellent investment. Smokemaster went out of business, but there are other makers out there. Offset pits made of thin sheet metal are quite a bit cheaper, but they don’t last very long. 
CONTACT: Pitt’s & Spitt’s at 800-521-2947 or 
www.pittsandspitts.com for a catalog; or BBQ pits by KLOSE at 800-487-7487. 
BARBECUE TRAILERS
A barbecue trailer is a giant smoker on 
wheels, complete with a trailer hitch, 51
BRICK AND MASONRY PITS
The Saturday night meal at Barbecue Summer Camp 
is a whole-hog roast held in Dr. Jeff Savell’s backyard. Sausage and sides are usually provided by a famous barbecue joint, and Shiner donates the beer. 
Dr. Savell has constructed a cinder-block pit large 
enough to hold a whole hog. It measures 2½ blocks (40 inches) wide and 6½ blocks (104 inches) long. The cinder blocks  are stacked but not mortared together, 
so the pit can be disassembled and relocated. A few of  the blocks on the bottom are turned sideways to cre-ate a controllable draft. The pit has a stainless-steel lid and a steel rack with handles that sits inside,  both supplied by a friendly metal fabricator.
An outdoor smoker made of brick or cinder block 
is the ultimate in barbecue pits, provided that it is properly designed. If you are going to build one,  make sure you start with plans that will allow you to control the heat and smoke. Houston home barbecuer  
Ricky Adams samples some meat from a barrel smoker  in his front yard.
WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMP
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 52
GAS GRILLS Forget it. You can’t smoke 
meat on a gas grill. I’ve tried those little metal boxes that are supposed to hold smoldering wood chips. I’ve even tried putting the chips on aluminum foil.  It just doesn’t work. 
PELLET SMOKERS These automated 
barbecue units, which burn sawdust pellets, employ a thermostat and mechan-ized auger feeder that delivers the pellets into an electric heating element to maintain a preset heat level. At low temperatures, the pellets create a good bit of smoke. There is no grill surface and no way to sear or grill anything. Pellet smokers work reasonably well and appeal to folks who don’t want to get involved with live-fire cooking. 
Breaking It In
A brand new smoker straight from the manufacturer is going to burn too hot and emit unpleasant odors from the grease, metal shavings, and other residue left inside. To burn in your smoker,  light a hot fire without any food inside and keep it burning for a couple of hours. After the smoker has cooled, wipe out any ash, rub the grate with vegetable oil, and you should be ready to cook. Con-sider buying a waterproof cover for your barbecue smoker to keep it from rusting. Lubricate the hinges frequently.There are several modern pieces  
of equipment that we don’t cover at Barbecue Summer Camp. Here’s a quick run-down.
COLD SMOKERS  Once upon a time, 
when iceboxes had enamel interiors, discarded refrigerators were used as cold smokers. You inserted one of those electric charcoal lighters through a hole drilled in the bottom on one side and stacked some hardwood chips on it. Then you put some meat on the shelves, plugged in the charcoal starter, and shut the door. The door sealed the smoke inside, and your food got a smoky flavor fast. T o finish, you cooked the meat in the oven or on a grill.
You can do something similar with a 
stove-top smoker, a sealed stainless-steel container that works on a home cooktop. You sprinkle hardwood sawdust in the bottom, place the food on a rack, seal the container, put it on a burner, and turn on the heat. The sawdust smolders in the tightly sealed container without stinking up the house, and your food is smoked  in minutes.
The Camerons stove-top smoker, 
which is made by a company in Colorado, comes outfitted with apple, alder, cherry, hickory, maple, mesquite, oak, and pecan “smoke dust.” It works great on half a chicken, a couple of sausage links, or a piece of fish. But you can’t cook a brisket or a rack of ribs on it.
CONTACT: Camerons Professional Cookware at 
888-563-0227 or www.cameronssmoker.com.Grady Spears and his refrigerator 
smoker, Alpine, 1997.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 54
steam, paper-wrapped meat can still  
vent some moisture. You can use white, brown or peach-colored butcher paper (not kraft paper), but make sure to get untreated butcher paper that is approved for food service use. Some T exas barbe-cue joints use the greasy discarded paper from the previous day to start their fires the next morning. 
CHARCOAL STARTER CHIMNEY
A charcoal starter chimney is a cylindri-cal container with a grate in the middle and a fireproof handle on the outside. You fill the top of the container with charcoal, stuff some newspaper in the bottom,  and light the paper. Within ten minutes or so, you have hot coals without using any starter fluid. Some people use paraffin along with the newspaper, but it isn’t necessary. Weber makes an extra-large chimney that suits me perfectly. 
These chimneys became popular in 
California after the city of Los Angeles banned the use of charcoal starter fluid because it is an environmental menace. It’s a culinary menace, too. If you’re not careful, you end up with barbecue that smells like an oil refinery.
Note: Never put a lit chimney on  
a picnic table, deck, or other flammable surface.
CONTACT: Chimney starters are available 
anywhere barbecue equipment is sold.
DRIP PANS AND WATER PANS
A drip pan is a container placed under 
the meat to keep the fat from falling  into the fire and flaring up. It is usually Tools You’ll Need
A stick to poke the coals and a fork to  flip the meat were about all that was required to cook barbecue in the good old days. T oday, we have come to rely on various modern conveniences; some have come to be considered absolute necessities while others are just handy gadgets—you’ll have to decide for yourself which is which.
ALUMINUM FOIL
Lots of the recipes in this book call for you to wrap the meat in foil. You’ll need the heavy-gauge, extra-wide variety.
ALUMINUM FOIL PANS
You may have used one of these large disposable pans to cook a turkey for Thanksgiving. They are most commonly available in rectangular shapes, including half sheet and full sheet. There is also  a large oval pan, which is handy for whole cows’ heads, if you’re cooking barbacoa. Barbecue cook-off competitors use the pans to smoke chicken and other cuts to prevent the meats from burning and for smoke-braised recipes. 
BUTCHER PAPER
Old-time T exas butchers use “peach paper” to wrap their meats. This uncoated food-grade paper is light pink in color, hence the name. Wrapping barbecue meats in butcher paper is a good alternative to wrapping them in aluminum foil. While foil-wrapped  meat will continue to cook with lots of 55
syringe. For $50, you can get a profes-
sional meat injector that looks like a paint gun—that’s what we use to inject several gallons of brine into a whole  hog at Barbecue Summer Camp.
GLOVES
Handling barbecue with fireproof or heat-resistant gloves not only prevents you from damaging the meat with utensils but is also generally easier and cuts down on burns. You can find them at some barbecue specialty shops. Fabric gloves get dirty fast. Barbecue compe-titors favor Neox gloves, which have  a heat-resistant neoprene coating and a cotton lining and are washable. 
KNIVES
Boning Knives:  A 6-inch boning knife 
is the ideal tool to trim a brisket or a rack of ribs. You can find inexpensive models with plastic handles starting at around $25—and deluxe models for much more. Some pitmasters prefer the ones with curved tips for trimming briskets.
Carving Knives:  Many cook-off 
competitors like electric knives, espe-cially for meats that tear easily under  the pressure of a regular slicing knife (like falling-apart-tender pork ribs). The meat science professors at T exas A&M recommend oversize slicing knives  that are long enough to span a brisket— 12 to 14 inches.
If you are looking for something tra-
ditional, go for the old-fashioned scimitar shape (tip curved upward), often seen in vintage barbecue joints. The modern filled with water or some other liquid 
(such as Lone Star beer). A water pan  is a pan placed in the smoke chamber between the food and the fire. Its pur-pose is to keep a high level of moisture in the smoke chamber so the meat stays moist. In a water smoker like the Weber Smokey Mountain Cooker, a pan filled with water placed between the meat and the fire serves both purposes at once.
A water pan adds moisture to the 
cooking chamber; it’s always a good  idea if you have room for it. If your smoking chamber is so full of meat that  a water pan won’t fit, don’t worry—the meat itself will emit moisture as it cooks. That’s why it’s a better idea to barbecue  a lot of meat rather than a single cut.  If you are cooking meat that is fatty, you may need to position a drip pan under the meat to keep the fire from flaring up. You will need to replenish the liquid in  a water pan or drip pan as needed while you cook. 
I use a metal baking pan for a water 
pan or drip pan, but I have accepted the fact that it will never be clean enough to bake a cake in again. Pyrex is a washable alternative, but disposable aluminum pans are perfect for this. 
FLAVOR INJECTOR
It looks like a giant syringe, and that’s actually what it is. You fill the chamber with a liquid marinade and inject it  into the meat. Injecting is much more efficient than marinating or brining. There are many models available, starting at around $5 for a little plastic 
WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMPRoy Perez at the chopping 
block with his favorite knives.57
yourself with one of the many available 
kits (www.knifemerchant.com).
MOP
The old-timers still prefer a little cotton mop for basting—the kind used for washing dishes—but oversize silicone basting brushes are fast replacing all other contenders. 
POKER 
You need something to move hot coals around. A stout stick from the yard  will do.
SCRUB BRUSH
No, the black gunk stuck to the grill doesn’t add flavor—not the good kind, anyway. Fire up your grill and clean  the cooking surface with a heatproof scrubber every time you barbecue. Get rid of your wire brushes—these are a safety hazard—when the steel bristles fall out, as they can accidently become lodged in the meat and be ingested.
SPATULA
Look for a large, heavy-duty metal barbecue spatula anywhere that sells barbecue gear.
TONGS
Many cook-off competitors insist that continued forking causes meats to lose too much juice. The long barbecue tongs don’t handle heavy things very well.  I like the short, spring-loaded kind you can get at restaurant supply houses.favorite slicing knife for brisket is straight 
as a yardstick, with a rounded blunt tip and a Granton-style blade. 
Granton is the name of the cutlery 
company, based in the United Kingdom, that patented the blade in 1928. Nowa-days Granton, or the term duo-edge,  
has come to describe any knife with a straight blade and two identical rows of indentations on either side of the cutting edge. The dimples improve the perfor-mance of the knife by cutting down on surface contact, thus reducing the drag and “stickiness” of the blade. The long, dimpled blade is a favorite in delis, where it is used to slice smoked salmon paper-thin, but the long knife also produces clean, uniform slices of brisket without tearing even the tenderest meat.
Lots of companies sell similar knives, 
but a 12- to 14-inch slicer from the origi-nal Granton knife company is a bargain: it costs under $40 online, and for a few bucks more, you can get one with a rose-wood handle. 
Knife Sharpening T ools:  While 
you are shopping for knives, don’t forget about knife sharpening tools—they are available wherever knives are sold. You should be putting an edge on your knives every time you use them and getting them sharpened every few months or so, depending on how much wear they get. I prefer a ceramic “honing rod” to the old-fashioned steel for regular use. For the long-term maintenance, you will also have to decide whether to have your knives professionally sharpened, or do it 
WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMP
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 58
round analog gauge on the top and get 
yourself an instant-read digital meat thermometer. You’ll find lots of inex-pensive models—starting at around $15—on the market. The Thermapen by ThermoWorks is the state of the art in instant-read digital barbecue ther-mometers. You don’t have to stand there burning the hair off your arm to get a reading, as the temperature is displayed the second the tip is inserted into the meat. The meat science professors at T exas A&M carry these in quick-draw leather holsters attached to their belts. The Thermapen costs around $90.  You can spend as much as you want on a holster.
Electronic Thermometers:   
There are lots of digital thermometers with probes on fireproof lead wires that allow you to monitor the heat level of your meat continuously. Maverick Industries was one of the first on the market with such thermometers and  the company still makes several models. ThermoWorks, the makers of the  Thermapen, sells the ThermaQ (model # 231-050), a continuous-read electronic thermometer with type K thermocouple fittings that can handle high heat levels. You can choose from a variety of probes, including a Thermapen probe and a grill surface sensor. A kit with two probes costs around $130. A Bluetooth version is said to be in the works.
The iGrill from Apple combines a 
two-probe electronic thermometer that attaches to your barbecue unit with a free smartphone app that picks up THERMOMETERS
Grill Thermometers:  Like an oven 
thermometer for your barbecue smoker, these instruments tell you the cooking temperature at the grill surface. Most barbecue smokers come with a thermom-eter installed, but they tend to break—and some aren’t very reliable to begin with. Fervent barbecue enthusiasts drill several holes in the doors of their smoker and add extra thermometers to give them a better idea of the entire range of temp- eratures inside the smoker.
If you want to add grill thermome-
ters to your smoker, or replace one that’s shot, consider getting some high-quality hardware. The T el- Tru BQ300 Barbe-cue Thermometer is an excellent grill thermometer that’s available online for $50 to $60. Don’t forget to buy the $7 installation kit—it has the hardware you need to screw the gauge in place.
Of course, you can also gauge the 
grill surface temperature with an electronic sensor on a dual-purpose electronic thermometer.
Meat Thermometers:  Old-school 
pitmasters judged the level of doneness by inserting a fork into the meat and testing how easily it came out. If it came out effortlessly, the meat was done. If the fork dragged or caught, the meat needed more time. I think it’s fair to say that every pitmaster in T exas uses a thermometer these days (with the possible exception of ninety-something-year-old Vencil Mares at Taylor Cafe; see page 182).
Throw away your old-fashioned 
meat thermometer with the little 59
 WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMP  charcoal, wood chunks, and wood chips. 
Here are a few suggestions.
CHARCOAL 
Some barbecuers cook with charcoal, and some cook with wood, but most use a combination of the two. Cook-off veteran Harley Goerlitz recommends starting with charcoal and adding wood a little at a time.
Kingsford, or any other standard 
brand of pure charcoal briquette,  will work fine. Avoid the cheap com-posite briquettes, which contain paraf-fin or petroleum by-products. Lump hardwood charcoal is the irregular kind that’s not made into briquettes. T exas charcoal makers like B&B Charcoal, located in Weimar, market oak lump and other hardwood lump charcoals that provide some smoky flavor. They are popular for Southern-style whole-hog and open-pit cooking. Don’t bother with the mesquite-flavored charcoal or other “flavored” briquettes. You want to use chips, chunks, or logs for smoke flavor. 
WOOD 
In T exas, the most popular barbecue woods are oak, pecan, hickory, and mesquite. Pitmasters tend to use the wood that is close at hand. That means post oak and pecan in Central T exas; pecan, red oak, and hickory in East T exas; and mesquite in South and  West Texas. 
In blind taste tests at Barbecue  
Summer Camp and Camp Brisket, attendees compare identical cuts of meat the thermometer signal on Bluetooth 
and displays the temperatures on your iPhone or iPad. 
You can use the probes to show the 
internal temperatures of two different cuts of meat, or use one for the meat and one for the temperature inside the smoker. (The probe designed to read the temperature of the grill surface must  be purchased separately.) 
At Barbecue Summer Camp, we also 
use the iGrill feature that records a graph of the time and temperature during  the entire cooking process. This is an excellent tool for understanding how  to cook a brisket. For example, the graph illustrates “the stall,” the temperature plateau that the brisket hits at around 160˚F.
If your barbecue smoker is close 
enough to your bedroom, the iGrill allows you to monitor your overnight cook  from the comfort of your bed. But many have complained that the range of the iGrill Bluetooth connection is too limited. 
Fuels
Wood is the preferred fuel in T exas barbecue, but it’s not always an easy matter to cook with it. On a big barbecue smoker with plenty of distance between the heat source and the meat, you can burn a clean wood fire and keep the cooking chamber at a low temperature. But you can’t very well throw a log into your Weber Smokey Mountain. With smaller equipment, you have to learn  to improvise with a combination of LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 60
“clean fire” of post oak that’s burning, 
not smoldering. 
At Snow’s in Lexington, oak logs are 
burned down; the coals are shoveled into smokers; and pork, chicken, and ribs are placed on a grill about 26 inches above the coals—Snow’s famous brisketsare cooked with indirect heat in offset smokers burning post oak logs. 
Mesquite is a completely different 
fuel. It is very resinous and burns hot. Grilling over mesquite is a great idea, but smoking with mesquite requires some adjustments. At Cooper’s in Llano, the mesquite is burned down in a fireplace and then the glowing coals are shoveled into the smokers. This cuts down on the tar quite a bit. Cooper’s also wraps its brisket in foil after several hours and continues cooking it on the coals. 
Orange wood and peach wood are 
among the newest T exas barbecue fuels. They were recently introduced by WESTERN Premium BBQ Products  in Pleasanton and are particularly well suited to chicken, turkey, and other mild-flavored meats.cooked over oak, mesquite, pecan, and 
hickory. The favorite for flavor in these experiments has alternated between hickory and oak, with pecan and mes-quite consistently finishing third  and fourth. 
Pecan is a cousin of hickory. In fact, 
its original botanical name was Hicoria 
pecan  (today, it is known as Carya 
illinoinensis ). I have pecan trees in my 
yard, and I have some cut-up pecan on  a wood pile next to the fence. When  I want barbecue wood, I take a piece of wood from the pile and chop it into chunks that will fit into my firebox. If you have hickory, maple, alder, cherry, apple, oak, pecan, walnut, or some other hardwood tree in your neighborhood, you can do the same thing, but you  have to season the wood first.
“Pecan tastes really sweet, but it’s 
sooty—it makes the meat black,” cook-off competitor T ommy Wimberly told me, “especially if it’s a little green.” 
If you acquire freshly cut logs, it is 
a good idea to let them age for a year or two before using them. Kreuz Market in Lockhart keeps three woodpiles going. One pile is new post oak logs, another  is year-old post oak logs, and the third is two-year-old post oak, which is mainly what they use for smoking. 
Edgar Black Jr., down the street at 
Black’s, mixes his woods. “We use the dry post oak for heat and some green post oak for smoke,” he says. “If your meat is coming out too black, your wood is too green.” Aaron Franklin of Frank-lin Barbecue in Austin recommends a Pitmaster Tootsie Tomanetz 
at Snow’s BBQ in Lexington.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 62
For a hot smoker, add another 
twenty-five briquettes once you get the first batch lit. This will bring you up to about 350˚F very quickly. The bigger the pile of charcoal, the hotter the fire will burn.
T o control the heat level, close down 
the dampers to lower the heat and stabil- ize the temperature. Then open the dampers a little at a time to increase the ventilation rate and raise the tempera-ture. If your barbecue isn’t drawing very well, consider making the chimney taller with rolled sheet metal or tin cans.
When you add wood chunks or logs 
to a charcoal fire, add them to the side rather than on top of the charcoal, so that they burn slowly at an even heat.
Direct and Indirect  
Heat Setups
COOKING OVER DIRECT HEAT Like 
open-pit cooking, cowboy-style barbecue calls for a good distance above the coals, to decrease the danger of burning. It’s an easy way to cook a lot of meat at one time, and it doesn’t take up much space. 
The biggest problem with cooking over direct heat is that you need a second fire so you’ll have hot coals when you need to add them. (You can also use a starter chimney for this.)
T o set up a grill for direct-heat cook-
ing, spread hot coals evenly across the firebox and put the meat on the grill  18 inches or more above the coals.
COOKING OVER INDIRECT HEAT 
Indirect heat has become the most common style of barbecue cooking. You can set up almost any barbecue cooker for indirect cooking by putting the fire on one side of the unit and the meat on the other. A drip pan is often positioned under the meat to prevent flare-ups. 
SOME GENERAL TIPS 
Keep your fuel dry and never soak the wood, as many sources suggest. Wet wood will just put the fire out. Always clean out all the old ashes before you start cooking and always clean the grill. Starting a Fire
A STARTER CHIMNEY HOLDS ABOUT TWENTY-FIVE BRIQUETTES,  
and that’s how much I usually start with. As soon as you see flames coming out of the top of the chimney, dump the charcoal into the firebox or grate of your smoker. (If you forget to dump the charcoal, the chimney will quickly burn up all your fuel, and you’ll have to start over.) Y ou can start adding wood as soon as you dump the coals. If you are using lighter fluid, be sure to wait until the coals are white before you start cooking, so you don’t get any lighter-fluid taste. 63
facing the fire will be the hottest, so 
rotate the meat regularly to keep it 
cooking evenly. 
Small logs and charcoal are the safest  
fuels in a barrel. Flare-ups are a real 
problem. The fire can easily spread to the 
cooking meat and set your whole dinner 
ablaze, so be careful about how close  
you set the meat to the fire. Also, don’t 
overload the grill with meat. Control the 
fire by opening and closing the chimney 
damper and fuel door to raise and lower 
the ventilation rate. Stick an oven ther-  
mometer inside for accuracy.
OFFSET BARBECUE PITS  Before you 
begin, open the drain plug, drain out  
any old grease, and then rinse the smoke 
chamber with a hose. Be sure that ashes 
aren’t preventing the ash drawer from 
closing completely and that the firebox lid 
and door close tightly. You need the air 
seal on your firebox to be as tight as 
possible. Excess ventilation will result in a 
fast-burning wood fire that will consume 
your fuel quickly and cook too hot.WEBER SMOKEY MOUNTAIN 
COOKER If you dump a lot of hot 
coals from a chimney into a Weber or 
smaller smoker, the fire tends to burn 
hot and then go out. That’s fine for 
grilling, but not for barbecuing. For that 
reason, many barbecuers try to create 
fires that burn more slowly and evenly. 
The “Minion Method,” named after 
a barbecuer named Jim Minion, starts 
with a small fire and adds coals around 
it. The “fuse method” calls for laying 
charcoal in the fire pan in a half circle 
and then putting lit coals onto one end 
so the coals light slowly and burn a little 
at a time, like a slow-burning fuse. 
T o start cooking, open the top vent 
all the way and open the bottom vents 
halfway. Lay out the charcoal in the 
bottom pan. Light ten briquettes of 
charcoal in a starter chimney and put 
the coals in the fuel pan. Fill the water 
pan with liquid. Put the meat over the 
water pan. (There is room for a second 
rack of meat in a 22½-inch model). Put 
wood chips on top of the charcoal as you 
cook to add smoke flavor. Control the 
temperature with the bottom air vents 
around the sides. Refuel as necessary.
BARREL SMOKERS (TEXAS  
HIBACHIS) Light a fire in one end of 
the barrel only. You can move the meat 
around to maintain a good cooking 
temperature. (You can also use a barrel 
for cowboy-style barbecue by putting 
the meat directly over the fire for all or 
part of the cooking time.) When using 
indirect heat, the part of the meat  
WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMP
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 64
chamber. Most of the recipes in this book 
call for temperatures between 225˚ and 300˚F, but some go as high as 350˚F. Most backyard smokers can handle this temperature without any problem. 
“You want to cook your better cuts 
of beef faster and at higher tempera-tures,” says John Fullilove, one-time pitmaster at Smitty’s and at Schmidt Family Barbecue in Bee Cave. “T ough cuts like brisket have to cook slowly.”
A barbecue pit is much like an oven. 
It can be set to many different temper-atures. A brisket needs to simmer slowly in its own juices to get tender. In contrast, there’s no reason to simmer a standing rib roast. It’s easier to burn things at higher temperatures, so you have to be careful. Fullilove suggests that you pick the heat level that’s right for the cut of meat you’re cooking— and not worry about the dogma. 
HOW TO TELL WHEN IT’S DONE 
Veteran pitmasters can tell when the meat is done by poking it with a fork, and I once used this time-honored method myself. But now that I own a Thermapen instant-read digital ther-mometer, I use it every chance I get. 
Several changes in the target tem-
per ature for barbecue have taken place recently. Disgruntled cooks who were tired of serving burnt meat were delighted when the United States Department  of Agriculture (USDA) revised its standards. The recommended internal temperature for poultry was changed from 185˚F to a more reasonable 165˚F . Start a charcoal fire in a starter 
chimney, and pour the hot coals into the firebox. Add wood chunks or logs when you’re ready to cook. Bring the fire up above the cooking temperature you need, and then close the dampers to reduce the heat. Try to maintain a steady heat. Continue opening and clos-ing the firebox door and the chimney damper to raise and lower the ventila-tion rate and the temperature as needed.
Refuel as necessary, a minimum of 
at least once every hour and a half.
Cooking 
Temperatures
That Old Dogma  
Don’t Hunt 
In the days of the open pit, you had to 
cook low and slow or your meat would catch fire, so low and slow cooking (between 200˚ and 250˚F) became part of barbecue dogma. 
The most famous smoker in Texas 
has got to be the huge double-fireplace, high-chimney pit at the old Kreuz Mar-ket location in Lockhart (now Smitty’s Market). Beef shoulder clods are cooked in this smoker for around four hours at temperatures as high as 500˚F. The prime rib is barbecued in even less time. The design of smokers like this was the basis for the indirect method of cooking used in a T exas backyard barbecue rig, in which the firebox is separated from the smoke 65
In fact, most cook-off competitors in the 
chicken category aim for 165˚F at the breast and 175˚F in the thickest part of the thigh. 
The recommended internal tempera-
ture for pork went from 170˚F to 145˚F , the same temperature suggested for beef and lamb. This is an excellent target temperature for tender cuts like pork tenderloin and pork loin roast, especially if you like your pork a little pink.
Some changes have also been made 
on the other end of the spectrum, though not because the USDA changed its standards but rather because pitmasters began experimenting with new cooking techniques. Pulled pork is now consid-ered done at 200˚F, instead of the previ- ous 190˚F . And T exas pitmasters like Aaron Franklin are cooking their briskets to the once unheard-of temperature  of 203˚F.
Oversmoking  
When you first get started with real-wood barbecuing, there is a tendency to oversmoke foods. It’s not hard to tell when meat has been oversmoked, because it tastes like tar. 
Resinous wood like mesquite; green, 
unseasoned woods; and wood that has been soaked in water can sometimes generate too much tarry smoke. If you cook with a blend of charcoal and wood or with dry seasoned wood, you shouldn’t have this problem. But be aware that there is such a thing as too much smoke. When to Use the Oven 
Cook-off competitors are required to cook everything on the pit—and that’s where the home cook has an advantage. When it starts raining, it gets dark, or you run out of firewood, there is no disgrace in finishing your barbecue in the oven. Once you’ve gotten a nice smoky flavor and a good grill char on your meat, it will taste just as good (or sometimes better) if you finish cooking it inside. Plus, finishing your barbecue in the oven is often a good way to avoid oversmoking it.
Just set your oven to the temperature 
specified in the recipe, transfer your meat, and follow the usual instructions. T o hold meat that has already been cooked, wrap it in untreated butcher paper or alumi-num foil and put it in a roasting pan in the oven at its lowest setting.
WHAT I LEARNED AT BARBECUE SUMMER CAMP3THE SPORT  
OF BARBECUE
Tips from the Trophy WinnersA competitor at the Houston 
Livestock Show and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-Off checks his brisket about an hour before the judging begins.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 70
or the smoke-seasoned 
competitors who tow their barbecue trailers across T exas each summer, barbecue is more than a cooking style; it’s a way of life. In T exas alone, more than one hundred barbecue cook-offs are held each year. 
Winners of regional cook-offs are invited  to compete in national championships, such  as the Kansas City Barbeque Society’s American Royal Invitational in Kansas City, Missouri, and the Jack Daniel’s Invitational in Lynchburg, T ennessee.
Drinking beer and watching meat smoke may 
seem like an odd competitive sport. Of course, it is a 
blind tasting of the smoked meat that determines the winner. At a regional cook-off, the judges sit together at picnic tables, and each one gets a ballot sheet. T welve to fourteen numbered Styrofoam dishes full of meat are then passed around the table and scored. The judges are not allowed to express any opinions  or to discuss the entries until the judging is complete. 
Each contest has slightly different rules. At the 
Taylor International Barbecue Cook-Off, the samples get a simple 1 to 10 score. At another cook-off that I used to judge, the ballot is weighted, with appearance 
F71
and aroma each accounting for 5 points 
maximum, and taste and tenderness accounting for up to 20 points. 
There’s a lot to learn from the 
pitmasters at famous old T exas barbe-cue joints. Their opinions and unique regional styles are explored in the chapters that follow. But for the amateur point of view, it’s hard to beat a barbecue cook-off. The pitmasters of the barbe-cue teams that consistently win the big contests may be the best teachers when it comes to backyard barbecue basics,  if you can get them to talk to you. And that’s generally a pretty big if. 
Much has changed since my first  
gig as a judge at the 1996 Taylor Inter-national Barbecue Cook-Off. Back then, barbecue cook-offs were a lot less cut-throat and a lot more fun.
Saturday morning, between my 
shifts at the judging table, I wandered around Murphy Park, expecting to meet a lot of earnest competitors. What I actually found was a bunch of unshaven, bleary-eyed guys snoozing on lawn chairs set up next to their smokers. Good thing it wasn’t a beauty contest. It turns out that the real fun at a barbe-cue cook-off occurs the night before the judging. That’s when the competitors stay up all night tending their fires and drinking too much beer. 
Today, there is more money at stake 
for the winners and a new competitive-ness fueled by reality television shows. 
THE SPORT OF BARBECUE
Texas Pride at the Taylor 
International Barbecue Cook-Off.
TEXAS
FOREVERLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 72
T elevision heroes like Myron Mixon encourage bar-
becue cook-off competitors to do anything to win. The results of this new attitude are both positive and negative. 
On the downside, I don’t judge barbecue cook-
offs anymore. Mainly, that’s because the meat submitted to the judges is now injected with potas-sium and other chemicals to aid moisture retention, doused with MSG to boost the flavor, and generally not anything I want to put in my mouth.
But on the positive side, T exas barbecue cook-off 
competitors have come up with some exciting new techniques for cooking ribs, chicken, and brisket that are easily adapted to the way we cook at home. 
Then, as now, the cook-off competitors most  
willing to share their recipes are the ones who win the most trophies. That’s because the secrets of prize-winning barbecue are patience, diligence,  timing, the ability to judge cooking temperatures, and an instinct for what meat smells and feels like when it reaches the perfect level of doneness. Those secrets can’t be stolen. 73
Cook-Off Champion 
Harley Goerlitz 
There are more than three 
hundred barbecue trophies in Harley Goerlitz’s garage. He calls his team Harley’s Fencing, which is also the name of his business. Harley has won eighteen ﬁrst prizes in the Giddings Barbecue Cook-Off. (Giddings is his hometown.) He has also won the coveted Overall trophy at the Kansas City Royal, the Overall at the Taylor International, and First Place at the Brady Goat Cook-Off, and he was a runner-up at the Houston Rodeo and Livestock Show’s cook-off. In short, Harley knows how to cook meat. So, one day during a competition, I asked him for some pointers for home barbecuers.
“First off, don’t worry about 
buying a big, fancy smoker,” he said. “You can make great barbecue in a Weber, if you know what you’re doing.”  All around him, huge, fancy rigs worth thousands of dollars were billowing smoke. But Harley was cooking in a sawed-in-half oil drum.Harley’s Pork Shoulder
I ASKED HARLEY TO GIVE ME A RECIPE FOR  
somebody who had never smoked meat before. “T ell 
’em to start off with a pork shoulder. It’s hard to mess up a pork shoulder,” he said. Pork shoulder roast is also known as Boston butt.
Season the pork roast with the dry rub, pressing 
the spice mix into the meat. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
The next day, set up your smoker for indirect heat 
with a water pan, and put the onions in the water  pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 210˚ and 250˚F. 
Place the roast in the smoker. Mop with the sauce 
every 30 minutes, turning the roast so it cooks evenly. The roast should be ready in 4 to 5 hours. The meat is done when it pulls easily away from the bone, but don’t worry about overcooking it. It will just keep get-ting better. An internal temperature of around 170˚F is good for sliced pork; aim for 200˚F for pulled pork. 
Slice or pull the pork from the bone, removing the 
big chunks of fat as you go. Shred the meat by hand and serve it on sandwich rolls with barbecue sauce.
SERVES 8 TO 10
Variation: Barbecued Leg of Lamb. Substitute 
a 3-pound bone-in leg of lamb for the pork shoulder. Serve with Mustard Sauce (page 109).1 bone-in pork shoulder 
roast (4 to 5 pounds)
6 tablespoons dry rub of  
your choice 
2 onions, halved 
4 cups mop sauce of your 
choice Sandwich rolls, split,  
for serving
Barbecue sauce of your 
choice for serving
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 74
Klassic Mop
THE KLASSIC KOOKERS BARBECUE TEAM OUT OF KILGORE, TEXAS, WAS 
competing in its fourteenth Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-Off 
in 2001 when head cook T ommy Wimberly gave me the recipe for his mop. He keeps this mixture simmering in a five-gallon soup pot on the smoker whenever he barbe-cues, and he uses it on everything. You’ll notice that T ommy keeps the proportions easy to handle—“I don’t like measuring,” he says. If necessary, you can cut down the amounts to fit the size of your soup pot. 
Combine all of the ingredients in a large soup pot and add water to fill the pot 
nearly full. If your barbecue smoker has a firebox, set the pot on top of it and bring the contents to a simmer, stirring until the sugar dissolves, then keep the mop at a sim-mer. If it doesn’t have a firebox, bring the mop to a simmer on the stove top. As the meat cooks, baste it with the mixture: T ommy uses a cotton mop, but a silicone brush is fine, too. If you start to run out of liquid near the end of your barbecuing, just add  a little water to what’s left in the pot.
MAKES ABOUT 8 QUARTSOne 16-ounce box brown sugar
One 32-ounce bottle Wesson oil½ cup butter or margarineOne 17-ounce bottle distilled white vinegarOne 10-ounce bottle Worcestershire sauceLarge pinch of celery salt1 head garlic, cloves separated, peeled,  
and crushed
4 or 5 onions, cut into large pieces4 or 5 lemons, halved75
MOPS   A mop is a basting sauce. In the old 
days, when forequarter and other large beef cuts were barbecued, mops were essential because the beef came out dry without them. Walter Jetton recommended that beginners use a basic basting liquid of cooking oil with  a little seasoning added for beef. The idea  was to try to replace the natural fat. (Jetton himself favored more elaborate basting sauces; see his recipe, Jetton’s Beef Stock Mop, on page 165.) 
Brisket, the cut of choice for many 
barbecuers nowadays, doesn’t really require any basting, since it is barbecued with much of the fat cap still on it. But cook-off competitors baste it anyway for added flavor (see chapter 11 for several brisket mops).
Award-winning cook-off competitors 
also baste poultry during the cooking process. Italian dressing, straight out of the bottle,  is a popular dual-purpose marinade and mop 
for chicken. To avoid bacterial contamina-tion, it is best to discard the marinade liquid and use fresh Italian dressing for the mop.
Pork cuts typically have plenty of fat,  
so pork mops don’t need oil in them, but pork barbecuers swear by vinegar. A vinegar mop, they say, aids the tenderizing process. For a simple pork mop, you can use straight vinegar or add some crushed garlic cloves. Or you can adapt another mop recipe by adding more vinegar.
Most barbecue competitors have devel-
oped their own mop recipes that elaborate on these principles. Harley Goerlitz uses a basic mop during most of the cooking process, but adds a stick of butter to what’s left of the mop toward the end to intensify the flavor.
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 76
Rockney Terry
Rockney Terry and his Falls 
County “Go Texan” team had entered the state’s biggest shootout, the Houston Live- stock Show and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-Off, more than a dozen times when I ﬁrst caught up with them. The  team won the Overall trophy  at the rodeo cook-off in 1996  and the Chicken category  in 1992.Rockney Terry’s Pork Rub
HERE’S AN EASY PORK RUB TO GET YOU STARTED 
on blending your own combinations.
Combine all of the ingredients in a bowl and mix 
well, then transfer to a shaker jar. The rub will keep 
in an airtight jar at room temperature for a couple of months. 
MAKES ABOUT 1¼ CUPS 
Heath Ray’s Rub
HEATH RAY IS THE COMPETITION PITMASTER  
of the Cold River Cattle Company Barbecue T eam,  a perennial favorite at the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-Off. Ray uses this great all-around rub on briskets.
Combine all of the ingredients in a bowl and  
mix well, then transfer to a shaker jar. The rub will keep in an airtight jar at room temperature for up  to 1 month.
MAKES ABOUT 1½ CUPS¼ cup salt 
¼ cup paprika2 tablespoons sugar2 tablespoons garlic powder 2 tablespoons onion powder3 tablespoons cayenne 
pepper
2 tablespoons ground black 
pepper
¾ cup kosher salt ½ cup coarsely ground  
black pepper
1 tablespoon cayenne 
pepper2 tablespoons granulated 
garlic
2 tablespoons chili powder LEGENTS77
RUBS  The simplest dry rubs are nothing but 
salt and pepper—half and half is the usual ratio. The old meat markets add a touch of cayenne, too. Barbecue cook-off competitors generally favor rubs that also include garlic powder, ground dried chiles, and other spices.
Harley Goerlitz and many other cook- 
off competitors market their own lines of bar-becue seasoning blends. There are also many commercial dry rubs and seasoning mixes available in grocery and gourmet stores.  (See page 288 for mail-order information.) 
Tommy Wimberly, the head cook of the 
Klassic Kookers team from Kilgore, likes Tony Chachere’s Original Creole Seasoning with some Adams Malabar black pepper added. Rockney Terry of the Falls County Barbecue Team uses barbecue rubs made  by Adams Extract. 
So, how do you pick a rub? First, you 
have to decide on the MSG issue. There’s no    
THE SPORT OF BARBECUEdoubt that MSG enhances the flavor of meat, but it gives some people a headache.
Next, check the ingredients list. For 
beef, you probably want plenty of salt, garlic powder, and pepper. If you’re cooking chicken, you’ll also want herbs. A pork rub, on the other hand, might have more sugar and paprika in it. You can buy a rub designed for almost any meat, but after a while you’ll find yourself blending your own rubs. It’s certainly a lot cheaper that way.
Sprinkle the rub generously over the 
surface of the meat. Then rub it in and allow the meat to absorb the flavor for a while.  If possible, marinate the meat overnight in  the refrigerator. 
Try one or both of the rubs in this chapter 
for starters, then check out more rub recipes in the chapters that follow.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 78
Rockney Terry’s Brined Chicken 
ROCKNEY TERRY’S SECRET TO GREAT BARBECUED CHICKEN—AND ONE REASON  
why he won the Chicken trophy in 1992—is brining. That single step saturates the 
bird with flavor and keeps it juicier during cooking.
In a large bowl or crock that will fit in your refrigerator, combine the water, salt, 
hot-pepper sauce, pepper, and poultry seasoning and stir until the salt dissolves.  Add the beer, stir well, and then refrigerate until cold. 
Remove the giblets from the chicken and reserve for another use. T urn the chicken 
breast-side down and, using a sharp knife or poultry shears, cut along the length of the backbone. T urn the chicken breast-side up and press against the breastbone to flatten it. Put the chicken in the brine and place a weight on top of it to keep it sub-merged. Refrigerate for 24 hours to cure. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks,  
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  225˚ and 275˚F.
Remove the chicken from the brine and discard the brine. Pat the chicken dry, 
then sprinkle it all over with the rub and press the rub into the skin and meat. Lay the chicken, bone-side down, in the smoker and cook, mopping it with Italian dressing every 30 minutes, for about 3 hours, or until a thermometer inserted into the breast away from the bone registers 165˚F . Alternatively, insert a knife tip into the thickest part of a thigh; if the juices run clear, the chicken is done. Serve immediately.
SERVES 2 TO 4
BRINING  Brining and curing are old meat-
market techniques for improving the flavor of smoked meats. What we call Canadian bacon  
is actually a cold-smoked brined pork loin. At the City Market in Schulenburg, the staff makes a dried pork loin at Christmastime by injecting the pork with sweet bacon cure and then hot-smoking it until it shrinks. The barbecue cook-off teams that con-
sistently win top honors always marinate or brine their chickens or pork loins before  cooking. Brining is easy to do, and it makes  a huge difference in the juiciness of the meat.2 quarts hot water
½ cup sea salt2 tablespoons hot-pepper sauce 1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper1 tablespoon poultry seasoningOne 12-ounce can beer 
1 whole fryer chicken (3 to 4 pounds)¼ cup dry rub of your choice3 cups Wish-Bone Italian dressing 79
Barbecued Honey Pork Loin
A SWEETENER IS THE MAGIC INGREDIENT IN A PORK BRINE. HERE, HONEY IS 
used, but you can experiment with others sweet flavors as well, such as maple syrup or 
apple juice and brown sugar (see variations, following).  Cooking a pork loin is differ-
ent from cooking a pork shoulder, says Rockney T erry. Pork shoulder keeps getting better the longer it is cooked, but pork loin should be cooked just until it’s done and then quickly removed from the heat before it dries out.
Serve with German Sweet Potato Salad (variation, page 127) and Leon O’Neal’s 
T urnip Greens (page 154). This tastes great without barbecue sauce or with a  mustard-based sauce such as Mustard Sauce (page 109).
In a large bowl or crock that will fit in your refrigerator, combine the water, salt, 
honey, Tabasco, and pepper and stir until the salt dissolves. Refrigerate until cold. 
Put the pork loin in the brine and place a weight on top of it to keep it submerged. 
Refrigerate for 36 to 48 hours to cure. T o test if it is properly cured, slice off a little piece and fry it. If it is overcured, it will taste salty, and if it is undercured, it won’t have a lot of flavor. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or 
logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 275˚ and 325˚F . 
Remove the pork from the brine and discard the brine. Pat the pork dry, then 
sprinkle it all over with the rub and the garlic and press them into the meat. Put the pork in the smoker and cook, turning it as needed to cook evenly, for about 3 hours, or  until a thermometer inserted into the thickest part registers 145˚F . Transfer the pork to a cutting board, cover it lightly with foil, and let it rest for 15 minutes before  carving and serving. 
SERVES 10
Variations: Barbecued Maple Pork Loin. Replace the honey with 1 cup maple syrup.Barbecued Apple Juice Pork Loin. Replace the honey and 1½ cups of the water with2 cups apple juice and ¼ cup firmly packed brown sugar.2 quarts hot water
½ cup sea salt¾ cup honey2 tablespoons Tabasco sauce1 tablespoon ground black pepper1 boneless pork loin (4 to 6 pounds)
1¼ cups Rockney Terry’s Pork Rub  
(page 76)
3 garlic cloves, minced
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 80
Marvin Lange
Marvin Lange of Thrall is the 
patriarch of the Lange family and the head cook of the Smokehouse Cookers barbe-cue team. The family team specializes in barbecued chicken.Marvin Lange’s  
Barbecued Chicken
WISH-BONE ITALIAN DRESSING IS THE FAVORITE 
marinade of Marvin Lange’s Smokehouse Cookers 
barbecue team. They have won so many trophies for chicken at various T exas cook-offs that it’s hard to argue with the decision to go with Wish-Bone. The chicken is marinated overnight in the dressing. 
Remove the giblets from the chicken and reserve 
for another use. T urn the chicken breast-side down and, using a sharp knife or poultry shears, cut along the length of the backbone. T urn the chicken breast- side up and press against the breastbone to flatten it. Sprinkle the chicken all over with the rub and press the rub into the skin and meat. Let the bird sit at room temperature for an hour or so. Put the chicken in a large resealable plastic bag, add 3 cups of the Italian dressing, seal the bag closed, and refrigerate overnight.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water 
pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 225˚ and 275˚F .
Remove the chicken from the bag and discard the 
marinade. Lay the chicken, bone-side down, in the smoker and cook, mopping it with the remaining  3 cups Italian dressing every hour, for about 3 hours, or until a thermometer inserted into the breast away from the bone registers 165˚F. Alternatively, insert a knife tip into the thickest part of a thigh; if the juices run clear, the chicken is done. Serve immediately.
SERVES 2 TO 4 1 whole fryer chicken (about 
3½ pounds)
¼ cup dry rub of your choice6 cups Wish-Bone Italian 
dressingLEGENTS81
Buttery Glazed  
Half Chicken
IN THE REST OF THE COUNTRY, COMPETITORS  
submit any six pieces of chicken for the chicken 
category, observes Ernest Servantes. Six breasts, six thighs, whatever they want. Myron Mixon smoke-braises boneless thighs in a muffin tin for his chicken entries. Other folks smoke drumsticks. A lot of competitors pull the skin off the chicken, scrape off all the fat, and stick the skin back on with toothpicks in order to get a chicken skin that is crispy instead of rubbery. But in T exas, the rules call for a half chicken, so there’s a lot less manipulation. 
Chicken is delicate and absorbs more smoky 
flavor than most other meats, so it is easy to overdo the smoking. It’s also easy to burn the skin. That’s why cook-off competitors often put the chicken in an aluminum pan for part of the cooking time.
Several hours before the chicken halves are sched-
uled to go in the smoker, inject them as directed on page 83 and then sprinkle each chicken half all over with the dry rub and press the rub into the skin and meat. Rub the outside of the chicken with any left-over marinade to help the dry rub stick to the skin.  Refrigerate the chickens until it is time to prepare the smoker.
continued . . .
4 to 6 half chickens
Buttery Chicken Injection 
(page 83)
Red River Ranch Chicken Rub 
(page 84)4 to 6 tablespoons  
margarine or butter 
Orange-Tiger Chicken Glaze 
(page 85)
Ernest Servantes 
Pitmaster Ernest Servantes 
and his Burnt Bean Co. cook-off team have won dozens of barbe-cue cook-offs including the Grand Champion award in the Lone  Star Barbecue Society’s Cooker of the Year (COTY) contest in 2013 and 2014. He also won the Grill Masters version of the television show Chopped.  He 
teaches a class called Master the Grill—BBQ Cooking School for aspiring cook-off competi-tors. Here’s what he has to say about what’snew in Texas barbe-cue cook-offs.
“The cooking techniques at 
Texas barbecue cook-offs have changed a lot in the last ﬁfteen years. I think we are more inﬂu-enced by cooking styles in other parts of the country than we used to be. Maybe it’s because of all the television shows; maybe it’s the cookbooks. 
“Texas barbecue judges are 
looking for sweet-ﬂavored glazes on ribs and chicken now. At home, I like spicy ribs and simple smoked chicken, but you can’t cook that at a competition. Dry rub ribs aren’t winning,  and nobody is winning the Chicken category with Italian dressing marinades anymore.”
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 82
Prepare a smoker with lump hardwood charcoal and a water pan and maintain a 
temperature between 275˚ and 300˚F . This is an excellent recipe for orange, peach, or apple wood, if you have any; otherwise, a little post oak or hickory wood will  do. You want a little smoke, but not too much. Melt about 2 tablespoons margarine in each of two or three half-sheet-size aluminum foil pans (use two pans for four chicken halves and three pans for six chicken halves). Mix a little dry rub into the butter in each pan, then place two chicken halves in each pan. 
Place the pans in the smoker and cook for 1 hour. Then, wearing fireproof gloves 
so as not to tear the chicken skin, carefully transfer each chicken half to the grate and continue smoking for another 30 minutes at 250˚F , rotating the birds as needed for even cooking. Using a thermometer, begin checking the internal temperature of the chicken, and continue cooking until it registers 160˚F . Return the chicken halves to the aluminum pans and begin painting them with the glaze. The chicken is done when the breast registers 165˚F and the thigh registers 175˚F . Serve immediately.
MAKES 4 TO 6 HALF CHICKEN PORTIONS83
Buttery Chicken Injection
THE FIRST PROBLEM IS FINDING A GOOD CHICKEN. 
You can’t use “enhanced” chicken (see page 84) in a 
competition. 
Instead of marinating or brining, winning teams are 
injecting their chickens. There are all sorts of injection ingredients—butter, chicken stock, you name it. You have to work real slow or all of the liquid just shoots back out of the hole when you pull out the needle. 
Recipes that call for garlic powder, black pepper, and 
other spices that do not completely dissolve won’t work for an injection. The particles get caught in the injector.  That’s why you want to cook your injection sauce in a saucepan on the stove top to dissolve the ingredients completely before you load the injector. You can avoid garlic powder by simmering the sauce with garlic cloves and then straining it.
In a small saucepan, combine all of the ingredients 
over medium heat, bring to a simmer, and simmer for 5 minutes, making sure that the salt and cane syrup are completely dissolved. Remove from the heat, strain through a fine-mesh sieve, and then let cool for a minute or two, but not so long that the butter begins to solidify. 
Fill a flavor injector with the marinade and insert 
the needle into the exposed meat at various locations, pushing it well into the chicken. Don’t puncture the skin. Inject the liquid slowly and evenly until you feel pressure, then slowly pull out the needle. If you push too hard or pull out the needle too fast, the liquid will squirt out of the chicken.
MAKES ENOUGH FOR 6 HALF CHICKENS½ cup salted butter
2 tablespoons apple juice2 tablespoons chicken stock1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce1 teaspoon Tabasco, or  
to taste 
1 teaspoon cane syrup or 
molasses
½ teaspoon salt, or to taste 3 garlic cloves, crushed
Mickey Speaker  
on Chicken
Mickey Speaker and his Hard 
Heads BBQ Team have been competing in barbecue cook-offs for over thirty years, specializing in the Chicken category. Speaker does the barbecue chicken cooking demonstrations at Barbecue Summer Camp (see page 48).
“In the old days, we mari- 
nated our chickens, but now we inject them—like everybody else,” he told me while cooking half a dozen birds. Speaker’s team uses Ritter’s Chicken Injection Marinade, a popular commercial product that comes in powdered form.  You mix the powder with your choice of water, apple juice,  or chicken stock and inject the chickens several hours before cooking. Ritter’s also sells  a variety of rubs, including the popular Cluckin Buckin Rub. 
“We are working on our  
own injection and rub recipes,” Speaker told me.
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 84
Red River Ranch  
Chicken Rub
THE COMBINATION OF RANCH DRESSING MIX  
and sweet Hungarian paprika results in a red rub  
that makes chicken skin look great. 
Combine all of the ingredients in a spice grinder 
and process until well blended. Do not reduce the mixture to a fine powder. The rub will keep in an airtight jar at room temperature for up to 1 month. 
MAKES ENOUGH FOR 6 HALF CHICKENSEnhanced Meats
The term enhanced  is the 
meat industry’s euphemism for products that have been injected with potassium  and salted water. The injec-tions make the meat juicy, but they also add about  15 percent in water weight, which increases industry  proﬁts. Chicken and pork are the most frequently enhanced meats. 
Marinating, brining, or 
injecting an enhanced meat product is a waste of time. The meat is already so saturated with chemicals and salted water that it can’t absorb any more liquid.
½ cup sweet Hungarian 
paprika
¼ cup sugar¼ cup garlic salt2 tablespoons powdered 
ranch dressing mix1 teaspoon poultry 
seasoning
1 teaspoon ground  
white pepper
½ teaspoon cayenne  
pepper85
Favorite Glazes
Ernest Servantes glazes 
his competition ribs with jalapeño jelly, but you can use any kind of jelly thinned with a little hot butter. Paint it on thick and shiny like a coat of shellac. Servantes says that the guys who are winning these days are using glazes like Daigle’s Cajun Sweet & Sour Sauce or Craig Sherry’s Texas Rib Candy (see Online and Mail-Order Sources, page 288).Orange-Tiger  
Chicken Glaze
TIGER SAUCE IS A MILD, SWEET-AND-SOUR  
cayenne sauce from Reily Foods in New Orleans. 
Because it has a mellow chile flavor without a lot of heat, it has become a favorite of barbecue competi-tors who don’t want to overwhelm the judges’ taste buds. If you like your chicken spicy, substitute a hotter pepper sauce, like Sriracha, Frank’s  RedHot, T exas Pete, or Tabasco.
In a small saucepan, combine all of the ingredi-
ents over medium heat and cook, stirring constantly, until the sugar is completely dissolved. Remove  from the heat and pass the glaze through a sieve to remove the orange peel. Alternatively, if you would like the deliciously bitter flavor of the peel in your chicken rub, transfer the glaze to a blender and purée until smooth. 
Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight jar and 
store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES ABOUT 1½ CUPSOne 18-ounce jar orange 
marmalade
¹⁄³ cup Tiger Sauce¹⁄³ cup honey
¹⁄³ cup ﬁrmly packed  
brown sugar
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 86
Johnny Trigg
Born in 1938, Johnny Trigg 
graduated from North  Texas State University and then spent most of his life  in the insurance industry.  He started entering barbecue competitions in 1990, and  the cook-off circuit became  his retirement hobby. 
He and his Smokin’ Triggers 
team won the Grand Champion title at the Jack Daniel’s World Championship Invitational Barbecue in Lynchburg, Tennessee, in 2000 and 2003. He appeared several times on BBQ Pitmasters , winning 
the television show’s Grand Champion title in season three. 
Johnny Trigg has some 
sage advice for backyard bar-becuers: Use lump charcoal, not briquettes, which contain ﬁllers. And throw away your old spices every six months and buy some fresh stuff. Johnny Trigg’s  
Spareribs
JOHNNY TRIGG’S RIB WRAP IS SHEER GENIUS. HE 
spreads margarine, brown sugar, hot-pepper sauce, 
and honey on aluminum foil in the shape of the rack of ribs, and then lays the rack, meat-side down,  on the mixture, wraps the foil around the rack,  and returns the ribs to the smoker. 
Trigg starts with what he calls “squeeze butter” 
(actually Parkay Squeeze). Although squeezable margarine may be the secret ingredient of winning competitors, feel free to substitute softened butter. 
Don’t bother to measure the ingredients precisely, 
as the bigger the rack of ribs, the more margarine, brown sugar, and honey you will need. What’s important is to cover a large enough area of the foil to coat the whole rack. Don’t try this recipe with the water-injected “enhanced” pork ribs sold at most grocery stores—you will end up with a foil package full of water.
1 rack 4 and up pork 
spareribs (5 to 6 pounds)
1 cup dry rub of your choice
¼ to ½ cup squeezable 
margarine or  softened butter
¼ to ½ cup ﬁrmly packed 
brown sugar1 teaspoon hot-pepper 
sauce, or to taste
¼ to ½ cup honeyAbout 1½ cups barbecue 
sauce or glaze of  your choice 
87
Trim the rib rack St. Louis style and remove the membrane (see page 197). 
Sprinkle the meat side of the ribs with the dry rub, pressing it into the meat, and let the rack sit at room temperature for around 45 minutes. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  225˚ and 275˚F . Cut a piece of heavy-duty aluminum foil large enough to wrap the ribs completely. Spread the margarine over an area of the foil the size of the rib rack. Sprinkle the margarine with the brown sugar and pepper sauce, then drizzle the honey evenly over the top. Lay the rack, meat-side down, on the margarine mixture and wrap the foil around the rack, sealing the packet tightly closed. 
Place the ribs in the smoker and cook between 225˚ and 275˚F for 3 hours. 
Remove the packet from the cooker and discard the foil. Coat the meat side of the rack with the barbecue sauce, return the rack, unwrapped and meat-side up, to  the smoker, and cook at 225˚F for about 1 hour, or until the ribs are done. T o test if the ribs are ready, using tongs, pick up one end of the rack, and if the rack is just about to break, the ribs are done. Be careful that they do not burn. 
Remove the rack from the cooker and immediately apply more barbecue sauce. 
Carve between the bones into individual ribs (Trigg uses an electric knife), pile  the ribs on a platter, and serve.
SERVES 3 TO 4
Variation: Home Version. Cook-off competitors have to do all their cooking on the barbecue 
pit, but home cooks have the freedom to employ modern conveniences. If you start Johnny Trigg’s Spareribs in an oven set at 250 ˚F for 3 hours, then put them on the 
smoker after you unwrap the aluminum foil and proceed as directed with the glazing, you will have exactly the same results. Be sure to put the foil-wrapped packages in a roasting pan before you put them in the oven—if you puncture the foil while handling, the juices will leak all over the oven.
THE SPORT OF BARBECUELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 88
Robert Sierra
Known for their elaborate 
and ornate barbecue trailers, Robert Sierra and his S&S Pit Crew are one of the top barbecue cook-off teams in Texas. “We’ve been cooking for ten years,” Sierra told me. “We’ve been on the Travel Channel and on lots of other television shows, including  All You Can Meat .”
The team has won trophies 
in four states, but none of those victories was sweeter than the Grand Champion title at the twentieth annual Juneteenth Barbecue Cook-Off in Sierra’s hometown of San Marcos. Robert Sierra and the organizers dedicated the event to an old friend, neighbor, and cook-off regular named Billy Waters, of Billy’s Southern Q, who had just passed away. “I think we did him proud this week dedicating this hometown cook-off in his honor,” Sierra said. The team also cooks at the Peace Ofﬁcers’ Memorial Foundation Cookoff, an event that beneﬁts the families  of fallen peace ofﬁcers.Robert Sierra’s  
Baby Back Ribs
“THE NEW, THICKER BABY BACK RIBS ARE CUT 
with more loin on top, so they take longer to cook,” 
Robert Sierra explains. “I like to slather some mus-tard on the meat and season it heavy. Then I like  to cook it low and slow with oak wood. I usually layer my rub—after the mustard—starting with the salt, then the black pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, and finally the brown sugar.”
2 racks baby back ribs 
(about 3½ pounds each)
1 cup yellow mustard
½ cup kosher salt¼ cup ground black pepper2 tablespoons garlic powder1 tablespoon onion powder ½ cup ﬁrmly packed  
brown sugar
About 1½ cups glaze of  
your choice (see Favorite Glazes, page 85; optional)LEGENTS89
Place the ribs, meat-side up, on a work surface. 
Spread them with the mustard, and then sprinkle them with the salt, pepper, garlic powder, onion pow-der, and brown sugar. Press the spices and sugar  into the wet mustard to form a coating. Let dry at room temperature for 20 to 30 minutes or until the spices are set.
Prepare a smoker with oak wood and a water pan 
and maintain a very low temperature of around 225˚F . Put the ribs, bone-side down, in the smoker for 3 hours. Flip the ribs so they are meat-side down, being care-ful not to knock off the spice mixture, and cook for  1 hour. Remove the ribs from the smoker, wrap them in heavy-duty aluminum foil, return them to the smoker, and cook for 1 hour longer. 
Remove the foil packet from the smoker, discard 
the foil, and apply the glaze to the meat side of each rack, if desired. Return the racks, meat-side up, to the smoker and cook for 1 hour longer, or until tender.  To test if the ribs are ready, using tongs, pick up one end of the rack, and if the rack is just about to break, the ribs are done.
Carve between each rib and serve fanned on a 
platter. 
SERVES 4 TO 6Sierra is a leading light of 
the “yellow mustard school.” Whether he is cooking brisket or ribs, he always starts  his marinating process with  a layer of French’s mustard, which helps the spices stick to the meat and form a thick bark. “Some people prefer  to wet the meat with pickle juice, but French’s mustard works better, if you ask me,” says Sierra.
THE SPORT OF BARBECUETHE BATTLE 
OVER SAUCE  
Disappearing Traditions  
versus Modern Tastes4Stirring barbecue gravy in cast- 
iron washpots at the Annual Millheim Father’s Day Barbecue. 
Photo by Robert LermaLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 94
arbecue sauce wasn’t 
served in the old meat markets of Central T exas. Salt, pepper, and post oak smoke were the only things that touched the meat. “That’s the way it’s been done for over a hundred years,”  says Rick Schmidt,  of Kreuz Market  
in Lockhart. Kreuz Market never served side dishes either.
Kreuz Market moved from its original location in 
downtown Lockhart to a new building in 1999. Rick 
retired in 2011 and turned the business over to his son Keith. Keith Schmidt added pork ribs, brisket, beans, German potato salad, and sauerkraut to the menu—but there still isn’t any sauce. 
“We feel that sauce is for covering up the flavor 
of the meat, which we want to accent, so we have no sauce,” Keith explains.
But the Schmidts aren’t the only barbecuers with 
strong opinions in Texas. Other barbecue propo-nents always use sauce, and they don’t put much stock in the methods of Central T exas meat markets. That’s not barbecuing; that’s just smoking, say the owners of Cooper’s, one of the state’s most famous outlets of cowboy barbecue.
B95
Arguments over cooking methods, 
the right kind of wood, the correct design of a smoker, and whether or not to use barbecue sauce have raged in T exas for as long as anyone can remem-ber. It’s partly because T exans like to argue. And it’s partly because T exas barbecue is an amalgamation of several formerly distinct styles that haven’t entirely reconciled with one another. 
Each of these barbecue styles once 
had its own rules. In East T exas, as  in most of the Old South, pork was the most common meat and open pits were favored. The woods used for smoking were red oak, hickory, and its cousin, pecan. In Mexican and West T exas barbecue, where goat and later beef were the favorites, mesquite was the wood  of choice, and meats were cooked directly over the coals. German meat markets became famous for serving smoked sausages and other meats on butcher paper without sides or sauces. But  the distinctions among the styles are slowly being lost.
“We started serving barbecue sauce 
in the early 1980s, but we only gave it to people who asked for it,” says Edgar Black Jr. of Black’s in Lockhart. Black’s father started his meat market and barbecue in 1932, serving smoked beef and sausage rings on butcher paper with nothing on the side but crackers. But by the early 1980s, it had become too hard to explain the unusual history of meat-market barbecue to all of the people who were coming to T exas from other places, 
Edgar Black Jr. says. They wanted potato salad, they wanted beans, they wanted sauce. Black’s finally gave in. 
The majority of T exas barbecue 
joints now serve a little bit of every-thing. You’ll always find some kind of beef offered and usually a German-style sausage along with Southern-style pork with barbecue sauce, Mexican tortillas, West T exas beans, and sides from all over the place—not to mention banana pudding, coconut cake, and sweet potato pie. Some places try to main-tain a degree of stylistic purity, but few succeed. 
That’s why when you say “T exas 
barbecue,” no one can be entirely sure what you are talking about. East T exas pork ribs slow-smoked over pecan wood? Elgin hot guts? Cowboy beef brisket cooked over mesquite? Browns-ville barbacoa? It may sound as though we’re confused, but there’s another  way to look at it. 
The best way to preserve our tradi-
tions is to constantly disagree about what T exas barbecue really is. As long as there’s some disagreement, the dis-tinctions are kept alive. 
The sauces in this chapter represent 
the different points of view about bar-becue sauce in the state—except for the point of view that insists you should use no sauce at all. 
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCEThe interior of Louie Mueller 
Barbecue in Taylor. 
Photo by Wyatt McSpaddenLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 98
Barbecue Joint Brisket Sauce
THE BEST BARBECUE SAUCES IN TEXAS ALL SHARE A SECRET INGREDIENT.  
A rare chile? An exotic herb? An unexpected spice? No, the secret is meat drippings. 
Brisket drippings are what make the sauce so good at Cooper’s in Llano, the cowboy barbecue joint that’s George W. Bush’s favorite. Lots of other places I have visited use the same technique.
“You collect all the juices that flow out of the meat while you’re slicing and add 
them back to the sauce. Just like you’re making a good gravy,” Ray Esquivel at Ray’s Roundup and QuickStop outside of Falfurrias told me as he sliced a juicy brisket. (Ray’s Roundup isn’t open anymore, but Ray’s sage advice lives on.) 
You can’t save barbecue sauce that has meat drippings in it, as it goes bad 
quickly. The trick is to make up a big batch of basic sauce and keep it in the refrigera-tor. Then you heat up what you need and add the meat drippings just before serving. It’s a good trick for improving bottled sauces, too.
Just before serving your barbecue, heat the barbecue sauce and add fresh meat 
drippings as you slice your barbecue. Serve all of the sauce the day you make it, as it does not keep well. 
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS2 cups Ancho Barbecue Sauce (facing 
page) or the sauce of your choiceUp to 1 cup meat drippings99
Ancho Barbecue Sauce 
USE THIS AS A BASIC BARBECUE SAUCE, ADDING MEAT JUICES AND CUT-UP 
meat scraps left over from carving just before serving.
Soak the chiles in hot water to cover for 30 minutes, or until soft. Drain and  
set aside.
In a heavy saucepan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic 
and sauté for 3 minutes, or until they begin to wilt. Add the ketchup and anchos  and sauté for 4 minutes. Add the Worcestershire, brown sugar, vinegar, lemon juice, mustard, and 2 teaspoons salt; stir well; and simmer gently, stirring frequently,  for 30 to 40 minutes, or until slightly thickened.  
Remove from the heat, taste and adjust the seasoning with salt if needed, and 
let cool. Transfer to a blender or food processor and purée until smooth. The sauce will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Reheat before serving.
MAKES ABOUT 4 CUPS3 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded
1 tablespoon olive oil2 cups diced onion7 garlic cloves, minced1 cup ketchup½ cup Worcestershire sauce¹⁄³ cup ﬁrmly packed brown sugar
¼ cup cider vinegar¼ cup fresh lemon juice1½ tablespoons prepared mustard Kosher salt
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCECattlemen conversing after lunch 
at the San Angelo Livestock Show, 1939.
 Photo by Russell LeeLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 102
Spicy Chipotle Sauce
THE ALWAYS POPULAR FLAVOR OF CHIPOTLE CHILES ADDS A PLEASANT 
dimension to smoky barbecue sauces.
Seed the chiles, then transfer them to a blender along with the sauce from the can 
and purée until smooth. Set aside.
In a large saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté 
for about 5 minutes, or until it begins to soften. Add the garlic and continue to sauté for 5 minutes longer, or until the onion and garlic are soft. Add the puréed chiles, ketchup, water, orange juice, vinegar, molasses, brown sugar, Worcestershire, and salt and stir well. Bring to a simmer, stirring to dissolve the sugar, and cook gently for 15 minutes to blend the flavors. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce will keep in an airtight container  
in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Reheat before serving.
MAKES ABOUT 2 QUARTSOne 7-ounce can chipotle chiles in  
adobo sauce
2 tablespoons butter1 cup minced onion4 garlic cloves, minced 3 cups ketchup1 cup water1 cup orange juice
1 cup cider vinegar¼ cup molasses or cane syrup 1½ cups ﬁrmly packed light brown sugar1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce1 tablespoon kosher salt103
Luling Barbecue Sauce
FAMILY FEUDS ARE STILL BEING FOUGHT OVER THE FAMOUS BARBECUE  
sauce at City Market in Luling. Here’s my version—in blind taste tests between the 
original and this copycat recipe, the copycat wins every time. 
In a small saucepan, combine all of the ingredients over medium heat and heat, 
stirring, until the sugars and salt have completely dissolved. Lower the heat to a gentle simmer and cook for a few minutes to blend the flavors. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce will keep in an airtight container  
in the refrigerator for up to 1 month. Reheat before serving.
MAKES ABOUT 3½ CUPS1 cup water
½ cup Louisiana hot sauce½ cup yellow mustard½ cup cider vinegar¾ cup ketchup¼ cup ﬁrmly packed brown sugar
1 tablespoon granulated sugar2 teaspoons salt1 tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 104
William Benedict  
“Bill” Smolik 
SMOLIK’S MEATS & BBQ, 
CUERO
William Benedict “Bill” Smolik  
was a third-generation sausage maker and barbecue man. His grandfather, a Bohemian Czech, smoked sausage on the family farm near Hallettsville in the late 1800s. His father, William Harris Smolik, opened Smolik’s Meat Market in Karnes City in 1918. Bill Smolik’s son, Michael, took over the restaurant after Bill Smolik died in 2007. Michael and his wife Camille are carrying the Smolik barbecue tradition on to the fourth generation.Easy Meat Market Sauce
BARBECUE SAUCE IS SERVED GRUDGINGLY BY 
some Central T exas meat markets. I got this recipe 
from Bill Smolik, who grew up cooking barbecue at his dad’s place, the legendary Smolik’s Meat Market in Karnes City, which was founded in 1928. 
In a saucepan, combine all of the ingredients over 
medium heat and heat, stirring, until the sugar has completely dissolved and the sauce begins to bubble. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce 
will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Reheat before serving.
MAKES ABOUT 5 CUPS3 cups ketchup
2 cups waterDash of Worcestershire 
sauce
Dash of vegetable oil1 teaspoon salt3 tablespoons brown sugar1 teaspoon ground  
dried chileLEGENTS105
Franklin’s Espresso Barbecue Sauce
BEFORE HE STARTED COOKING BARBECUE FOR A LIVING, AARON FRANKLIN  
worked in a coffee house, and his original barbecue trailer was parked behind a 
friend’s coffee-roasting operation. That’s how Franklin came up with his espresso-flavored barbecue sauce. It tastes great with brisket, but it’s good with Lockhart  Prime Rib (page 242), too.
Mix the ketchup, both vinegars, the soy sauce, garlic and onion powders, and 
sugar together in a saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Remove from the heat, stir in the espresso, then add brisket drippings to taste. Let cool, then transfer to a jar, bottle, squeeze bottle, or however you  want to store it. Store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS1½ cups ketchup
½ cup white vinegar½ cup cider vinegar¼ cup dark soy sauce1 tablespoon garlic powder1 tablespoon onion powder
¼ cup brown sugar3 tablespoons freshly pulled espressoBrisket drippings, for ﬂavoring
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 106
Rebekah’s  
Grapefruit-Chipotle Sauce
I HAD THIS SOUTH TEXAS GRAPEFRUIT-CHIPOTLE SAUCE AT A BARBECUE  
on a ranch near Victoria. It pairs especially well with pork and brisket, but it’s good 
with all kinds of barbecue.
Seed the chiles, then transfer them to a blender along with the sauce from the can 
and purée until smooth. Set aside.
In a small skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté  
for about 5 minutes, or until it begins to soften. Add the garlic and continue to  sauté for 5 minutes longer, or until the onion and garlic are soft. Add the puréed chiles, grapefruit juice, vinegar, molasses, brown sugar, ketchup, Worcestershire, water, and salt, stir well, and simmer for 15 minutes to blend the flavors. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce will keep in an airtight container  
in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Reheat before serving.
MAKES ABOUT 2 QUARTSOne 7-ounce can chipotle chiles in  
adobo sauce
2 tablespoons butter1 cup minced onion4 garlic cloves, minced1 cup fresh Rio Red grapefruit juice1 cup cider vinegar¼ cup molasses
1½ cups ﬁrmly packed brown sugar3 cups ketchup1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce1 cup water1 tablespoon salt107
Lady Bird Johnson’s  
Barbecue Sauce
BUTTER WAS A PRIME INGREDIENT IN OLD SOUTHERN-STYLE BARBECUE 
sauces. Mrs. Johnson used to send this recipe to people who wrote her at the  
White House. 
In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the vinegar, 
ketchup, lemon juice, Worcestershire, and garlic (if using) and season with salt,  pepper, and Tabasco. Bring to a boil, stirring often.
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce will keep in an airtight container  
in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks. Reheat before serving. 
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP4 tablespoons butter
¼ cup vinegar ¼ cup ketchup¼ cup fresh lemon juice¼ cup Worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon minced garlic (optional)Salt and ground black pepper Tabasco sauce for seasoning
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 108
Barbara Bush’s Barbecue Sauce
IN THE GEORGE H. W. BUSH ERA, MARGARINE WAS BEING PROMOTED AS AN  
alternative to butter for health-conscious barbecue fans. During her White House 
years, Barbara Bush gave out a recipe card with barbecued chicken on one side  and this barbecue sauce on the other. 
In a large saucepan, combine the water, vinegar, sugar, butter, mustard, onions, 
salt, and black pepper over medium-high heat and bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve  the sugar. T urn the heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the onions are tender. Add the ketchup, Worcestershire, and lemon juice to taste; season with cayenne; and simmer for 45 minutes longer to blend the flavors. Taste and adjust  the seasoning. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce will keep in an airtight container in 
the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Reheat before serving. 
MAKES ABOUT 6 CUPS2¼ cups water
¼ cup cider vinegar¾ cup sugar½ cup butter or margarine
¹⁄³ cup yellow mustard
2 onions, coarsely chopped½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper2½ cups ketchup½ cup Worcestershire sauce6 to 8 tablespoons fresh lemon juiceCayenne pepper for seasoning109
Mustard Sauce 
HARLEY GOERLITZ ONCE COMPETED IN THE LAMB DIVISION AT THE  
American Royal Invitational in Kansas City, Missouri. Unlike T exas cook-offs, 
where sauce is prohibited, at this event he was supposed to submit the meat  with sauce on the side. “I lost points for serving regular old red barbecue sauce,” Harley said. “They told me barbecued lamb is supposed to be served with mustard sauce. How was I supposed to know?”
Here’s a mustard sauce for lamb, just in case you ever get into the finals. 
In a small saucepan, combine all of the ingredients over low heat and stir until 
well combined and heated through. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. The sauce will keep in an airtight container  
in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks. Reheat before serving. 
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS½ cup Dijon mustard
½ cup apple juice²⁄³ cup molasses2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon crushed garlic1 teaspoon ground black pepper
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 110
Shaker Bottle Pepper Sauce 
IF YOU DON’T HAVE YOUR OWN PEQUÍN CHILE BUSH, YOU CAN SUBSTITUTE  
habaneros, serranos, or just about any other fresh hot chile in this recipe. In Jamaica, 
cooks make this sauce with Scotch bonnets and keep it in a pancake syrup dispenser.  You can use the sauce for any recipe in this book that calls for hot-pepper sauce.
If using pequín or other small chiles, clean a previously used pepper shaker bot-
tle with boiling water. If using larger chiles, such as serranos or habaneros, double the other ingredients and use a pancake syrup dispenser. Pack the container with the chiles. Add the carrot and onion (if using). 
In a small saucepan, heat the vinegar over low heat until it steams slightly. Pour 
the vinegar over the vegetables, submerging them completely. Let cool, cover, and let sit for 1 day before using.
You can use the vinegar as a hot-pepper sauce, or you can open the bottle to take 
out a few chiles as needed. The bottle can be refilled with vinegar about three times. The sauce will keep at room temperature for up to 6 months. 
MAKES ONE 12-OUNCE BOTTLE½ cup pequín or other fresh hot chiles 
3 or 4 carrot slices (optional)3 or 4 onion pieces (optional) 
½ cup distilled white vinegar111
Chipotle Ketchup
IMPORTED MEXICAN BÚFALO BRAND CHIPOTLE SAUCE MAKES A GREAT RIB  
marinade (see Art Blondin’s Chipotle-Marinated Ribs, page 204). If you can’t find 
the Búfalo sauce in your grocery store, you can make your own chipotle ketchup. It’s not only a great base for barbecue sauces, it’s also remarkable on  french fries, onion rings, and hamburgers. 
Remove the seeds and stems from all the chiles. Place all the chiles, the onion, 
and garlic in a large saucepan and cover with plenty of water. Bring to a boil over high heat, lower the heat, and simmer for about 15 minutes. 
Remove the chiles, onion, and garlic from the pan with a slotted spoon and trans-
fer to a food processor. Add the brown sugar, cumin, oregano, tomato paste, and a cup of the liquid the chiles were cooked in. Purée, adding more chile liquid until you reach the desired thickness. Adjust the seasonings with salt and pepper, and add more brown sugar if desired. 
The ketchup will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for several 
months.
MAKES ABOUT 5 CUPS3 dried chipotle peppers  
or 3 canned chipotle peppers
3 dried ancho chiles3 dried guajillo or pasilla chiles1 small white onion, diced5 garlic cloves, minced2 tablespoons packed brown sugar,  
or more to taste
2 tablespoons ground cumin1 teaspoon dried Mexican oregano2 cups tomato pasteSalt and ground black pepper
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCELEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 112
Barbecued Tomato Salsa
AFTER YOU FINISH BARBECUING, HAVE YOU EVER STOOD THERE ADMIRING 
the leftover coals, thinking what a shame it is to waste them? Here’s a sauce that lets 
you take advantage of those coals. 
Smoking tomatoes is a great alternative to roasting them in the oven, and you  
can use them in all kinds of recipes. Here, they make an outstanding salsa that you can serve on barbacoa or lengua or with tortilla chips as an appetizer. 
Place the tomatoes, onion, and jalapeños on a hot grill, a good distance from the 
direct fire, and let them smoke for at least 15 minutes, turning several times. Remove as much skin as possible from the tomatoes and jalapeños. Halve the jalapeños and remove the seeds and stems. Transfer the tomatoes, onion, and jalapeños to a food processor. Add the chipotle purée and lemon juice and purée for 30 seconds, or just until chunky. Transfer to a bowl and add the cilantro. Season with salt. Serve immediately. 
MAKES 2 TO 3 CUPS 3 tomatoes, quartered
½ onion, sliced into rings2 large jalapeño chiles1 tablespoon chipotle purée1 tablespoon lemon juice
½ cup chopped cilantroSalt 113
Pico de Gallo
DOWN IN THE LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY, THEY USE THIS KIND OF  
fresh salsa for barbacoa and lengua tacos, or for any kind of smoked meat served  
on a tortilla. 
In a bowl, combine the jalapeños, tomato, onion, and cilantro. Add the lemon 
juice, season with salt and pepper, and mix. Serve at once, or cover and hold in the refrigerator for a couple of days. 
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS5 jalapeño chiles, stems and seeds 
removed, minced
1 cup diced tomato1 cup chopped onion 2 cups coarsely chopped cilantro leaves
1 tablespoon lemon juiceSalt and ground black pepper
THE BATTLE OVER SAUCE5BUTCHER  
PAPER  FEASTS 
The Old German  
Meat MarketsSmoked meats, sausage ring, 
white bread, and crackers served on a sheet of butcher paper at Kreuz Market in Lockhart.  
Photo by Wyatt McSpaddenLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 118
f you follow your nose 
from Taylor down to Elgin, from Elgin out to La Grange, and south through small towns like Luling, Weimar, and Hallettsville, you’ll find a bunch of smoky 
old meat markets with German and Czech 
names where butchers still sell fresh chops and roasts in front and barbecue in the back. This unique style of barbecue traces its origins to the state’s German and  Czech settlers. 
The rest of the world thinks that all T exas pio-
neers were cowboys. In truth, some of the fathers of 
the Lone Star State were political and philosophical radicals who came here from Germany and Bohemia to live on communes. The legacy of our eccentric Bohemian forefathers lives on in such quirky places as Luckenbach, Shiner, and South Austin. 
Johann Friedrich Ernst was the original German 
pioneer in T exas. In 1831, Ernst received a land grant of more than four thousand acres in present-day Austin County. The excited Ernst wrote letters to friends back home describing an earthly paradise of 
I119
abundant fish and game, mild weather, 
and easy farming. This set off a steady stream of German immigration to T exas that continued for the next fifty years. 
Some of the German settlers were 
middle-class farm folk hungry for land. Others were freethinkers whose lofty ideals were suppressed by restrictive religious dogma in Germany. 
The Forty, for example, was a group 
of college students—followers of socialist visionaries like Fourier and Cabet—who formed a utopian society in Germany. They sailed across the Atlantic to live out their dreams, and in 1847 they founded the communal settlement of Bettina on the Llano River, basing it on the principles of “friend-ship, freedom, and equality.” The group included two musicians, an engineer,  a theologian, an agriculturist, two architects, seven lawyers, four foresters, and an army lieutenant. Unfortunately, the community was long on intellectuals and short on butchers and bakers. In less than a year, the settlement collapsed due to incessant arguments over kitchen duties. When the commune broke up, some of these young communists moved to Austin and became founding fathers of Texas. Others stayed in the Hill Country and became the patriarchs  of free-thinking political and philo-sophical dynasties. 
In the 1840s, a group of German 
noblemen took their fellow citizens to T exas by the thousands with the idea of founding a German colony. These settlers, and more who followed after the 
Civil War, created the T exas “German belt,” a large swath of German farm communities dotting the countryside from Houston to the Hill Country.  By 1850, Germans made up 5 percent of the state’s population.
By the 1890s, when the German belt 
was at its peak, a large area of T exas had developed the patterns of T eutonic civilization. In villages of half-timbered houses and Gothic churches, German-speaking T exans drank Bohemian-style beers like Shiner Bock and ate smoked sausage and sauerkraut.
German butchers smoked pork loins 
and sausages, just as they had done in Germany. Their regular customers took the artisanal sausages and smoked pork home and served it with the traditional German accompaniments. T o a casual observer (especially a hungry one),  the differences between these German smoked meats and Southern barbecue were subtle. 
Itinerant farmworkers who came 
through town during the harvest bought the smoked meats at butcher shops and ate them on the spot. Side dishes were what they could find on the store’s shelves—usually just crackers and pickles. Thus began the meat-market barbecue tradition. 
Some of the most famous barbecue 
joints in Texas, like City Market in Luling and Kreuz Market and Smitty’s in Lockhart, are still butcher shops. They never did become restaurants.  
BUTCHER PAPER FEASTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 120
T o this day, they offer barbecue the  
way the farmworkers ate it—with no plates, no knives, and no forks—just a slab of smoked meat on a piece of butcher paper. 
Many other meat markets have made 
concessions to the popular concept of barbecue and offer utensils, plates, and side orders. A few holdouts, like Kreuz Market and Smitty’s, still refuse to serve barbecue sauce. Great smoked meats don’t need sauces, Kreuz proprietor Rick Schmidt will tell you. And once you’ve eaten Kreuz’s smoked prime rib, smoked pork loin, and smoked sausage links, you tend to agree with him.
Meat market barbecue is cooked 
and seasoned differently from Southern barbecue, too. In East Texas, pork is often rubbed with a spice mix contain-ing salt, garlic powder, and red pepper and served heavily sauced. Meat-market pork is seasoned with nothing but salt, pepper, and smoke.Because of its simplicity, meat-
market barbecue is incredibly versatile. Smoky pork loin seasoned with only salt and pepper tastes good with barbecue sauce, potato salad, and coleslaw. But as I researched this cookbook, I wondered how it might taste if eaten the way the German T exans used to enjoy it—on a pile of sauerkraut. Fantastic is the answer! 
Here are some German- and Czech-
style T exas barbecue recipes, and some eccentric side dishes like Apfelkraut,  
red cabbage, and barbecued cabbage. You won’t see these in a T exas barbecue joint, but they’ll give you an idea of how German smoked meats and sausages were probably eaten in the old days.Butchers and clerks in front of 
J. R. Machu, a Czech grocery store in Granger, 1903.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 124
Barbecued Turkey
AT THANKSGIVING TIME, LOTS OF TEXANS TAKE THEIR TURKEYS TO THEIR 
favorite barbecue joints and have them smoked. Czech- T exan barbecuer Vencil 
Mares used to do a booming business smoking turkeys at his place in Taylor. He’s retired from the turkey-smoking business now, but this is his recipe.
“Buy a fresh turkey,” Vencil advises. “Season it up and add a bit of garlic and 
put it on the smoker. I do mine for four to five hours, but it all depends on your heat. At low heat, it takes a much longer time. Smoking a turkey is just like smoking a big pork roast.”You’ll do best with the smallest turkey you can find.
Remove the giblets from the turkey and reserve for another use. Season the  
turkey inside and out with the dry rub and rub in well. Spread the garlic around inside the cavity. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan, and put the onion in the 
water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 275˚ and 300˚F . 
Place the turkey, breast-side down, in the smoker as far away from the fire as pos-
sible. Cook the turkey for 2 hours, then turn it breast-side up, with the drumsticks pointing toward the fire, and baste it with some of the Italian dressing. After 2 hours more, rotate the turkey so that the drumsticks point away from the fire and baste it with more Italian dressing, leaving some in the cavity. Continue cooking and basting and regularly checking for doneness until a thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh away from the bone registers 160˚F . The timing will depend on the size of the bird. 
Let the turkey rest for 15 minutes before carving. 
SERVES 8 TO 10
Variations: Aluminum Foil Wrap. Barbecued turkey gets nearly black before it cooks through. 
Just cover the bird in aluminum foil when it is brown enough to keep the color from  getting too dark. 
Spatchcocked Turkey. Split the turkey along either side of the backbone and remove 
the backbone. “Butterfly” the remaining turkey by spreading it apart and flattening the breast as much as possible. Proceed as directed, decreasing the cooking time.1 small turkey (12 to 13 pounds)
¼ cup dry rub of your choice3 garlic cloves, minced½ onion
3 cups Wish-Bone Italian dressing125
The Family Feud in 
Lockhart
The meat market at 208 
South Commerce in Lockhart was known as Kreuz Market when it opened in 1900. Edgar Schmidt, a.k.a. Smitty, started working at the meat market in 1935. In 1948, he bought the business and kept the Kreuz name. In 1984, sons Rick and Don Schmidt bought the business from their dad and expanded the barbecue operation. 
Rick and Don’s sister, 
Nina Sells, owns the building that houses the business. In 1999, Nina and Rick were unable to come to terms on a new lease, and Rick moved the business, Kreuz Market, to a new, much larger location down the street. Meanwhile, Nina kept the old meat market in business under the name Smitty’s. 
This family feud generated 
widespread publicity, includ-ing a front-page story in the Austin American-Statesman  
and a segment on a tele-vision news magazine. John Fullilove, Nina Sells’s son, put the whole family feud story in a different perspective. “Kreuz Market outgrew this location,” he said. “And now they have a great big, new place.”
In 2011, Rick Schmidt sold 
Kreuz Market to his son, Keith Schmidt.Lockhart Pork Loin
KREUZ MARKET AND SMITTY’S IN LOCKHART 
both serve smoked pork loin cooked over a hot  
oak fire and seasoned with just salt and pepper. It’s one of the best things to barbecue at home because it’s so simple.
By leaving the bone in, you get a juicier roast.  
If you’re going to use a Weber or a smaller barbecue smoker, go ahead and get a boneless pork loin roast. It will cut the cooking time down to about 2½ hours and save you some refueling. Slice the roast and accompany with barbecue sauce and fixin’s, Southern style, or fan the slices over a platter of Apfelkraut (page 133) or Red Cabbage (page 132) and serve with German Potato Salad (page 127).
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water 
pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 275˚ and 325˚F. 
Season the pork roast all over with salt and pepper 
and place it in the smoker. Allow it to smoke for several hours, rotating it every 30 minutes to expose all sides to the heat. After 2 hours, begin checking the temper-ature when you turn the roast. Cook until the pork reaches an internal temperature of 145˚F for medium. Allow the roast to rest for 15 minutes; it should register 160˚F . Slice between the bones to serve.
SERVES 61 bone-in center-cut pork loin 
roast (about 4 pounds; ask the butcher to cut the bone at ½-inch intervals for easy slicing)Salt and freshly ground  
black pepper 
BUTCHER PAPER FEASTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 126
Bryan Bracewell’s  
Venison Sausage 
EARLY HISTORIES OF THE HILL COUNTRY NOTE 
that the German immigrants had a tough time in their 
first few years due to crop failures and the fact that they weren’t very good with firearms. Luckily, they were  great butchers, so they ended up specializing in process-ing wild game for others. 
Grind the pork and venison together through the 
¼-inch plate of a meat grinder (the chili plate). A little at a time, add the salt, pepper, and pickled jalapeño slices and juice as you go, so that they become well incorporated into the meat. In a large bowl, knead the mixture with your hands until everything is well blended. 
In a small skillet, heat a little vegetable oil. Form a 
meatball-size piece of the mixture into a small patty and fry it. Taste for seasoning and adjust as needed. 
Soak the hog casings in lukewarm water. Using a 
sausage stuffer or a pastry bag, stuff the meat mixture into the hog casings and tie into 4- to 6-inch links. (It will keep refrigerated for 3 to 4 days, or frozen for up to 2 months.)
When you’re ready to cook the sausages, poach them 
in warm (140˚F) water for 10 minutes, or until the meat mixture sets. Set up your smoker with wood chips or chunks at 275˚F . Sear the links on a grate over hot coals for 3 minutes on each side, or until nicely browned.  Move them to indirect heat over a drip pan and smoke  for 30 minutes, or until cooked through. Serve hot. 
MAKES 10 POUNDS
Bryan Bracewell 
SOUTHSIDE MARKET 
Bryan Bracewell, a third-
generation barbecue man and graduate of Texas A&M, is the owner and pitmaster at the legendary Southside Market in Elgin.5 pounds boneless fatty pork 
shoulder (also known as 
Boston butt), cut into strips
5 pounds boneless venison 
shoulder, cut into pieces 
½ cup kosher salt½ cup ground black pepper1 pint pickled jalapeño slices 
with the juice
Vegetable oil for fryingMedium hog casings  
(available at butcher shops)LEGENTS127
German Potato Salad
SERVE THIS SWEET-AND-SOUR POTATO SALAD WARM WITH A GARNISH OF  
crumbled bacon.
Place the potatoes in a saucepan, add water to cover by 1½ inches, and bring to 
a boil over high heat. T urn the heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender when tested with a knife. 
While the potatoes are cooking, fry the bacon in a skillet over medium heat for  
10 to 12 minutes, or until browned and crisp. Transfer to paper towels to drain. Pour off all but 2 tablespoons of the bacon fat from the skillet and return the pan to medium heat. Add the onion and sauté for about 10 minutes, or until softened. Transfer to a small bowl and set aside. Crumble the bacon.
Just before the potatoes are ready, in a large salad bowl, whisk together the brown 
sugar and vinegar until the sugar dissolves, then slowly add the olive oil while con-tinuing to whisk to form a dressing. Season with salt and pepper. Add the onion and 1 cup of the bacon. 
Drain the potatoes thoroughly, add them to the dressing, and toss to coat evenly. 
Let the salad sit at room temperature for 30 minutes, then garnish with the remain-ing bacon and serve warm.
SERVES 6 
Variation: German Sweet Potato Salad. Substitute peeled sweet potato cut into 1-inch dice  
for the baby red potatoes and proceed as directed.2½ pounds baby red potatoes 
15 thin slices bacon 1 cup diced red onion½ cup packed brown sugar2 tablespoons cider vinegar
¾ cup olive oilKosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
BUTCHER PAPER FEASTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 128
Mustard Potato Salad
YOUR CHOICE OF MUSTARD MAKES A BIG  
difference in this recipe. In West Texas, folks like 
bright-yellow potato salad, so cooks use a yellow mustard like French’s. German coarse-grain mus-tard gives the potato salad a darker color and a heartier flavor. French Dijon mustard makes it  pretty hot. 
Place the potatoes in a large pot, add water to 
cover generously, and bring to a boil over high heat. T urn the heat to low and simmer for 20 to 30 min-utes, or until the potatoes are tender when tested with a knife. 
Drain the potatoes, let cool until still slightly hot, 
then peel and cut into rough chunks. Transfer to a large bowl; add the eggs, onion, celery, parsley, celery seeds, mustard, and mayonnaise; and stir gently to mix well. Season with salt and pepper. 
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
SERVES 12Mayonnaise Myths
Forget the urban myth about 
the mess sergeant who poi-soned his entire platoon that had been on maneuvers all day by serving them potato salad. Commercial mayon-naise uses pasteurized eggs and contains acids (vinegar, lemon, and salt) that actually kill bacteria that grow in food. Homemade mayonnaise is another scenario, but it  would be heresy to use it in potato salad.
The cook is a more likely 
culprit in mass outbreaks of food poisoning. Adding cold mayonnaise to hot potatoes sets up a prime breeding ground for bacteria, which ﬂourish at 40˚ to 145˚F. Instead, refrigerate potato salad as soon as it’s pre-pared to cool it down quickly. For the best ﬂavor, remove it from the refrigerator and allow it to come to room tem-perature before serving.
—Beverly Bundy, Fort 
Worth food writer
8 russet potatoes 
8 hard-boiled eggs, peeled 
and chopped
1 cup chopped onion1 cup chopped celery3 tablespoons chopped 
fresh parsley2 teaspoons celery seeds
2 tablespoons prepared 
mustard
2½ cups mayonnaiseSalt and ground black 
pepper129
Coleslaw
THE AMERICAN WORD COLESLAW  COMES FROM THE DUTCH WORDS KOOL ,  
meaning “cabbage,” and sla, meaning “salad.” Here’s a simple recipe for old- 
fashioned T exas coleslaw. If you want to jazz it up, shredded carrots are a traditional addition. Shredded apples are a German addition that is particularly good with pork.
In a bowl, combine all of the ingredients, mixing well. Cover and refrigerate for  
a couple of hours before serving to allow the flavors to mellow.
SERVES 8
Variations:Summer Slaw. For a lighter, pickled flavor that’s perfect for summer picnics, omit 
the mayonnaise and add 1 teaspoon celery seeds.
Sauerkraut Slaw. Substitute fresh sauerkraut (available in pillow packs in the deli 
case) for the cabbage and omit the mayonnaise.6 cups shredded cabbage 
¼ cup distilled white vinegar½ cup mayonnaise2 teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon sugar1 teaspoon ground black pepper
BUTCHER PAPER FEASTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 130
Uncle Kermit’s Barbecued Cabbage
HERE’S AN OLD GERMAN RECIPE HANDED DOWN BY KERMIT SAKEWITZ,  
the uncle of a barbecue cook-off competitor I met in Taylor. If you have room on the 
smoker while you’re barbecuing something else, give this a try. 
Using a sharp knife, core the cabbage, removing a good-size chunk of the tough 
white bottom, then pull off any wilted or discolored leaves. Put the butter on a din-ner plate and sprinkle the salt, pepper, garlic powder, and onion powder over it. Roll the butter around until all the spices stick to it. (You may need to let it soften a little.) Shove the spiced butter into the hole where the cabbage core was removed. 
Wrap the cabbage in aluminum foil and turn the head core-end up. Use some excess 
foil to form a base that will keep the cabbage standing upright. Place on a smoker when smoking other items and cook for 4 to 6 hours, or until the cabbage is soft. 
Unwrap the cabbage and discard any blackened leaves before serving. Cut into 
quarters and serve with additional butter.
SERVES 41 head green cabbage
½ cup butter, plus more for serving 1 tablespoon salt1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 teaspoon garlic powder1 teaspoon onion powderA young German butcher in 
Texas in the early 1900s.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 132
Red Cabbage
IMMERSING THE CABBAGE IN A BRINE AND WORKING IT WITH YOUR HANDS 
before cooking will give it a beautiful deep color. The sweet-and-sour flavor of 
German red cabbage is an interesting alternative to barbecue sauce with a simple smoked pork loin, smoked pork chops, or barbecued sausage.
Quarter the cabbage through the stem end, cut away the core section from each 
quarter, and pull off any wilted or discolored leaves. Thinly slice each cabbage quarter crosswise. Fill a large bowl or nonreactive pot with warm water, add the salt, and stir to dissolve. Put the cabbage in the salted water and work it with your hands until the water turns an intense purple. Allow the cabbage to marinate in the colored water at room temperature for several hours, or up to overnight. 
If you have used a bowl for marinating the cabbage, transfer the cabbage and its 
soaking water to a nonreactive pot. Place the pot over medium-high heat, bring to a boil, and boil for about 5 minutes, or until the cabbage is tender-crisp. Drain and discard the water. 
In a Dutch oven, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the onion and 
sauté for 5 to 7 minutes, or until soft. Add the apples and continue cooking, stir-ring often, for about 5 minutes, or until the apples soften. Add the cooked cabbage, sprinkle the flour and sugar over it, and toss the cabbage to coat evenly. Add the wine, vinegar, stock, and bay leaves and simmer for 15 minutes, until the cabbage is soft and the mixture has thickened. 
Add the jam and taste for seasoning. If you like an intense sweet-and-sour taste, 
you will need to add more vinegar and sugar. Transfer to a serving bowl and serve immediately. 
SERVES 81 large head red cabbage 
1 tablespoon salt2 tablespoons butter1 large onion, chopped2 large Granny Smith apples, peeled, 
cored, and chopped
2 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour1 tablespoon sugar, or to taste
1 cup red wine ¼ cup red wine vinegar, or to taste1 cup beef stock2 bay leaves¼ cup strawberry jam133
Apfelkraut
“MY MAMA’S FAMILY WAS BOHEMIAN; MY GRANDMOTHER USED TO SERVE 
smoked sausage and sauerkraut all the time,” Norma Moore of Cuero told me one 
day while she was buying sausage at Smolik’s. But the Bohemians didn’t eat sauer-kraut straight out of the barrel (or can) the way Americans do. They cooked it with other ingredients to give it flavor, with apples, white wine, and bacon being a few  of the most common additions. 
Here’s an old-world apple kraut that’s great served with smoked pork sausage or 
pork loin. Avoid serving this with heavily smoked meats, as the smoky flavor will overwhelm the kraut.
Put the juniper berries, bay leaves, and peppercorns on a square of cheesecloth, 
bring the corners together, and tie securely with kitchen string to make a bouquet garni. In a Dutch oven, heat the vegetable oil over high heat. Add the onion and sauté for 5 minutes, or until it begins to wilt. Add the garlic, mix well, and then add the bouquet garni, sauerkraut, and apples and stir well to combine. Add the apple juice, vinegar, and sugar and bring the mixture to a boil, stirring occasionally. T urn the heat to low and simmer for 1 hour, or until the sauerkraut is very tender. 
Uncover and remove and discard the bouquet garni. Increase the heat to high, 
bring to a boil, and boil until the liquid has reduced and the mixture holds together. Transfer to a large platter, top with the meat, and serve.
SERVES 6 15 juniper berries
3 bay leaves10 black peppercorns3 tablespoons vegetable oil4 cups chopped onion2 garlic cloves, minced6 cups fresh sauerkraut (available in  
pillow packs in the deli case)3 McIntosh or other sweet cooking  
apples, peeled, cored, and cut  into ½-inch dice
2 cups apple juice¼ cup cider vinegar3 tablespoons sugarSmoked sausage, smoked ribs,  
and/or smoked pork for serving
BUTCHER PAPER FEASTSCELEBRATING 
JUNETEENTH
The Legacy of East T exas6Carving barbecue to sell at a 
booth at the Gonzales County Fair, 1939. 
Photo by Russell LeeLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 138
frican slaves intro-
duced many cooking traditions to T exas, including the Southern version of barbecue. As cotton growers moved into the fertile river bottoms and black-lands of East T exas,  by 1860, slaves began to represent a signifi-cant percentage of the state’s population.  
On June 19, 1865, Union 
soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, 
landed at Galveston and announced that the slaves were free. African-Americans in T exas have cel-ebrated the anniversary of their freedom on that day ever since. 
In a 1938 interview with a Works Progress 
Administration (WPA) writer, former slave  Anderson Jones remembered the original freedom celebrations, in which “hogs and cattle” were barbecued. “I kin remember w’en I was jes a boy about nine years old w’en freedom cum’s . . . w’en we commenced to have de nineteenth celebrations . . . an’ everybody seem’s like, w’ite an’ black cum an’  git some barbecue.”
In the late 1800s, African-Americans in T exas 
celebrated Juneteenth, as the June 19 anniversary of emancipation became known, with large out-door gatherings. These events sometimes included rodeos, prayer meetings, baseball games, and guest speakers, but they always included barbecue picnics. 
A139
Barbecuing was considered a tradition 
that was handed down directly from the celebrations of the freed slaves. 
Pork, mutton, goat, and wild game 
were the original barbecue meats in cot-ton country. T oday, barbecued mutton is still seen in East T exas. But here, as in the rest of the South, pork is the reigning favorite. As with Southern barbecue, the meats are preferred falling-off-the-bone tender and more heavily sauced.
Although East T exas barbecue 
draws heavily on Southern barbecue tradition, it has its own distinct style. East T exas is the only place where black Southern barbecue includes beef. Brisket in East T exas is often smothered in sauce after it is smoked and then sim-mered until it falls apart. The barbe-cued beef sausage of East Texas, known as beef links, is made with finely ground beef, beef fat, and paprika. East T exas barbecue joints also tend to be proud of their side dishes, including old Southern classics like turnip greens, okra, fried green tomatoes, and others not seen in barbecue restaurants elsewhere in Te x a s.  
Juneteenth celebrations almost died 
out in the early 1900s, when the Fourth of July rose in importance as a civic celebration. But when Ralph Abernathy and other civil rights leaders called for an official holiday celebrating African-American emancipation, Juneteenth made a revival. Thanks to the efforts of African-Americans in the T exas legislature, on January 1, 1980, June-teenth became a state holiday in T exas. In the last thirty years, several other states have adopted Juneteenth as a state holiday, as well. As the celebration of Juneteenth spreads across the country, African- T exan barbecue traditions will surely follow.
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHA slogan made famous by the legendary 
barbecuer C-Boy Parks on a sign in  front of House Park Bar-B-Que in Austin.
HOUSE PARKBAR-B-QUE
NEED NO TEEF
TO EAT MY BEEFLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 140
Sam’s Mutton 
SAM’S IS ONE OF THE LAST BARBECUE JOINTS IN TEXAS THAT STILL SERVES 
mutton seven days a week. Wanda, Joseph, and Willie Mays, the second generation 
of the Mays family to operate the place, inherited the tradition of barbecued mutton from founder Sam Mays. They told me that they smoke mutton for five to six hours,  but they wouldn’t tell me the ingredients of their secret seasoning mix.
Sprinkle the meat all over with the rub and press it into the meat. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  225˚ and 275˚F. 
Place the lamb in the smoker and cook for 6 to 7 hours, turning it often so it cooks 
evenly. The meat is done when the internal temperature reaches 190˚F and it pulls easily away from the bone. Serve immediately.
SERVES 41 square-cut lamb shoulder roast  
(7 to 8 pounds)2 tablespoons Louis Charles Henley’s  
All-Purpose Rub (facing page)141
Louis Charles Henley
Louis Charles Henley was  
the pitmaster at the late,  great Ruthie’s Pit Bar-B-Q, a barbecue joint in Navasota named after his mom. Here  are a couple of his tips: 
On wood: “Wood is the 
only seasoning you need. I use post oak for the heat, and then I add a little pecan for the sweetness and mesquite for the tang. Your wood has to be well seasoned, at least a year old. Green pecan will make you sick. Good wood is the only secret of good barbecue.”
On parboiling: “In the old 
days, a lot of folks in East Texas parboiled pork before they barbecued it. Parboiling speeds up the cooking and makes the meat really tender, but it takes away a lot of the ﬂavor. Of course, you have to remember that sometimes folks in the old days were barbecuing a bull hog. You’ve got to parboil something with that much scent to it. There are still plenty of barbecue places that parboil their ribs. They just won’t admit it.”Louis Charles Henley’s  
All-Purpose Rub
“I USE THE SAME RUB FOR PORK, BEEF, AND  
mutton,” says pitmaster Louis Charles Henley. “ A lot 
of people like to put sugar in a seasoning rub for pork. Me, I’ve gotten away from that. Sugar sticks to the grill, and it can give the meat a burnt taste. And in  the heat of the summer, it speeds up the spoiling pro-cess, too. I don’t use MSG anymore, either. It makes the meat tender, but too many people are allergic  to it.” Here’s Louis’s suggestion for a simple rub that  you can use on everything.
Combine all of the ingredients in a shaker bottle, 
cap tightly, and shake the bottle to mix well. Store at room temperature for up to 1 month.
MAKES 6 TABLESPOONS¼ cup Lawry’s Seasoning 
Salt
1 tablespoon ground black 
pepper2 teaspoons garlic powder
1 teaspoon chili powder
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHLEGENTSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 142
Pulled Pork
PULLED PORK IS THE EXTREMELY TENDER SHREDDED MEAT FROM A  
long-cooked pork cut. Originally, pulled pork included mixed meats from an entire 
hog. But in East T exas, pork shoulder has largely replaced the whole animal. In supermarket meat cases, whole pork shoulders are divided into two cuts, the meaty Boston butt and the pork picnic, which is covered with skin and includes the end  of the shoulder bone. The Boston butt is the more popular of the two because of its better yield. But for juicier pulled pork, try a pork picnic with the skin left on. Freeze seasoned pulled pork in airtight (or, better yet, vacuum-packed) plastic packages divided into 1-pound or 2-pound portions.
Sprinkle the meat all over with the rub, pressing the rub into the meat. Wrap in 
plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. The next day, unwrap the meat and bring it  to room temperature before putting it in the smoker. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan, and put the onions in 
the water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 210˚ and 250˚F . 
Place the pork in the smoker. After the first 2 hours, mop the pork every 30 minutes 
with the mop sauce, turning the meat at the same time so it will cook evenly. The pork is ready when an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center away from the bone registers 200˚F . This will take about 12 hours total.
Transfer the roast to a cutting board and let rest until it is cool enough to handle. 
Then, pull the pork from the bone, removing and discarding any big chunks of gristle as you go. Shred the meat by hand and season with salt, pepper, and vinegar pepper sauce. Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight container and store in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
MAKES ABOUT 3 POUNDS
Variation: Gatlin’s Pulled Pork Sandwich. Pile 5 to 6 ounces pork on the bottom of a toasted 
hamburger bun, add a few pickle and onion slices, and top with coleslaw, if desired. Serve with extra vinegar pepper sauce on the side.1 bone-in Boston butt or pork picnic  
(4 to 5 pounds)
6 tablespoons Stubb’s Hot Pork Rub  
(facing page)
2 onions, halved3 cups Klassic Mop (page 74) 
Kosher salt and ground black pepperGatlin’s Vinegar Pepper Sauce for Pork  
for seasoning (page 144)143
Stubb’s Hot Pork Rub
STUBBS—C. B. STUBBLEFIELD—HAS PASSED AWAY, BUT STUBB’S BARBECUE IN 
Austin tries to keep his spirit alive. This is the restaurant’s recipe for hot pork rub.
Combine all of the ingredients in a shaker bottle, cap tightly, and shake the bottle 
to mix well. Store at room temperature for up to 1 month.
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS1 cup salt
¼ cup chili powder¼ cup paprika
¹⁄³ cup garlic powder¹⁄³ cup cayenne pepper
½ cup ground dried rosemary½ cup ground black pepper
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 144
Greg Gatlin
Pitmaster Greg Gatlin runs 
Gatlin’s BBQ on 3510 Ella Boulevard in Houston, just north of downtown. He is also a partner in Jackson Street Barbecue next to Minute Maid Park, home of the Houston Astros. The Gatlin family has ties to western Louisiana,  so they serve Texas barbecue with a Creole accent. Gatlin’s Vinegar Pepper  
Sauce for Pork
GREG GATLIN’S FAMILY IS FROM LOUISIANA, SO 
he is no stranger to Southern-style pork barbecue.  
At his family’s barbecue joint in Houston, you’ll also find T exas brisket, several kinds of sausage, and  two kinds of pork ribs, along with pulled pork and Louisiana sides like dirty rice. “We want to keep everybody happy,” he says. This is an adaptation of Gatlin’s vinegar sauce. Try it on a pulled pork sandwich.
In a saucepan, combine the sherry vinegar, rice 
vinegar, rum, salt, cane syrup, and black pepper; place over medium heat; and heat, stirring, until the salt and syrup are dissolved. Remove from the heat and let cool. 
Transfer the cooled liquid to a 1-quart liquor 
bottle with a cap, then drop the chiles and carrots through the mouth of the bottle and cap tightly.  Store in the refrigerator for up to 3 months—it gets better with age.
MAKES ABOUT 3½ CUPS1 cup sherry vinegar
2 cups rice vinegar1 shot dark rum2 tablespoons kosher salt1 tablespoon cane syrup or 
molasses1 tablespoon coarsely 
ground black pepper
3 serrano chiles, halved 
lengthwise
2 carrot spearsLEGENTS145
Monte Barber’s  
Country-Style Ribs
MONTE BARBER WAS THE PITMASTER AT STUBB’S BAR-B-Q ON RED RIVER  
Street in Austin when I stopped by. Barber gave me this recipe for country-style ribs; 
he says that a pork roast won’t fit on his little smoker at home, but these ribs fit per-fectly. Country-style ribs are actually pork  shoulder (Boston butt) roasts cut into 
strips. They are very meaty, and they take a long time to cook. Don’t be in a rush.  T o locate Stubb’s Bar-B-Q Sauce, see Online and Mail-Order Sources on page 288.
Combine the orange juice and barbecue sauce in a resealable plastic freezer bag, 
add the meat, seal closed, and refrigerate overnight. The next day, remove the  meat from the marinade and let it dry at room temperature. Sprinkle the ribs with the rub and press it into the meat.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  225˚ and 275˚F. 
Place the ribs in the smoker and cook them, turning them every 30 minutes so 
they cook evenly. They should be ready in 4 to 5 hours. The meat is done when it pulls easily away from the bone, but don’t worry about overcooking it. It will just keep getting better. An internal temperature of around 170˚F is perfect. Serve hot.
SERVES 4 TO 62 cups orange juice
1 cup Stubb’s Bar-B-Q Sauce or the 
barbecue sauce of your choice3 pounds country-style pork ribs
3 tablespoons Stubb’s Hot Pork Rub  
(page 143)
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 146
 
Joe Burney
Houston pitmaster Joe  
Burney as remembered by his daughter, Karen Mayberry:  “My father was born March 5, 1903, in Baldwin, Louisiana.  He moved to Houston and got a job ‘in service,’ which meant working as a driver, porter, manservant in those days. He worked for a man named Bob Smith. The Third Ward was a booming African-American business district in the late 1940s. My mom and dad saved their money and bought the Avalon BBQ in the 2700 block of Dowling, which they owned with two other black barbecue men, Oscar Lott and Bill Williams. The small BBQ joint was famous for ribs and links, and my dad worked hard to build up a good reputation.  He learned to cook juicy links from Matt Garner, one of the old-timers around here.
“My dad used to drive 
around and give away barbe-cue to old folks who couldn’t get out of the house. When the Avalon burned down, he used Joe Burney’s Juicy Links
ACCORDING TO HOUSTON BARBECUE VETERAN 
Harry Green, beef links aren’t as good as they used 
to be because people don’t like all the orange grease that flows out when you cut into them, so sausage makers are adding too little fat. The original recipe at Burney’s BBQ called for a combination of beef scraps and suet ground together in a ratio of 70 per-cent meat to 30 percent suet.
In a small bowl, stir together the salt, paprika, 
pepper, and garlic powder. Grind the beef and suet together through the fine plate of a meat grinder, adding the spice mix a little at a time as you go. Transfer the ground meat to a large stand mixer fit-ted with the paddle attachment and beat on medium speed until extremely well combined. Cover and refrigerate the mixture for at least an hour. 
Soak the hog casings in lukewarm water. Using 
a sausage stuffer or a pastry bag, stuff the meat mixture into the hog casings and tie into 4- to 6-inch links. The sausage will keep refrigerated for 3 to  4 days, or frozen for up to 2 months.
When you’re ready to cook the sausages, set up 
your smoker for indirect heat. Smoke the beef links at 250˚F for 35 to 45 minutes, turning them to cook them evenly. Serve hot.
MAKES ABOUT 5 POUNDS¼ cup salt 
¼ cup paprika2 tablespoons ground  
black pepper
1 tablespoon garlic powder3½ pounds beef shoulder 
clod or beef scraps,  cut into pieces1½ pounds suet (beef fat), 
cut into pieces
Medium hog casings 
(available at butcher shops) LEGENTS147
House Park Pork Loin 
Sandwiches
AUSTIN’S HOUSE PARK IS A TINY BARBECUE JOINT  
named after the high school football stadium next 
door. Eating one of its pork loin sandwiches at a picnic table out front near 12th Street is an Austin tradition. For a new twist, try the pork loin sandwiched between slices of fried green tomato (see page 148) in place of the bun.
Heat the barbecue sauce in a small saucepan over 
low heat until hot. 
Cut the loin against the grain into thin slices. Dip 
the cut side of the bottom half of each hamburger bun in the barbecue sauce and place, cut-side up, on individual plates. Layer the loin slices onto the bun bottoms, dividing evenly and sprinkling with salt and pepper as you pile. T op with the onion and pickle slices, then dip the cut sides of the bun tops in the barbecue sauce and place atop the sandwiches. Serve immediately.
SERVES 4the insurance money to build 
Burney’s BBQ on Holman. It became an iconic African-American BBQ spot in late 1940s Houston. Unkie Lott started his own place called Lott’s Barbecue on Holman. Bill Williams opened another place on Scott. My mother and father cooked in the evening and worked their regular jobs during the day. The day crew sold the barbecue.
“My father did very well.  
He bought some show horses and he was very proud of them. There was a group of black businessmen that supported one another. They formed a club called the El Dorado Social Club. It became the center of the social scene in the Third Ward. It’s still around today.
“My father died on October 
12, 1958. I was six when it happened. My mom ran the barbecue joint for a year,  then sold Burney’s to Harry Green—my dad taught Harry Green to cook at Burney’s.  I got a job at Lott’s Barbecue when I was old enough to work. That’s where I met my husband, Waymon Mayberry; he worked there too. I married a barbecue man, of course.”
1 cup barbecue sauce of 
your choice
1 pound Lockhart Pork Loin 
(page 125), warm or  at room temperature4 hamburger buns, split
Salt and ground black pepper ½ sweet onion, thinly sliced8 pickle slices
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 148
Fried Green Tomatoes
SOME FOLKS LIKE TO MAKE THEIR PORK LOIN SANDWICHES WITH FRIED  
green tomatoes, layering the pork and barbecue sauce between two tomato slices. 
Pick it up if you want, or eat it with a fork and knife.
Into a heavy-bottomed pot, pour the peanut oil to a depth of 1 inch and heat to 
350˚F . Set a wire rack on a baking sheet and place next to the stove.
Spread the cornmeal on a plate and season with salt and white pepper. Crack the 
eggs into a shallow dish, such as a pie plate, add the water, and beat with a fork just until blended. 
One at a time, drop the tomato slices into the egg mixture and then dredge them 
in the cornmeal to coat, tapping off the excess. 
Working in batches, add the tomato slices to the hot oil and fry, turning them 
once, for 2 to 3 minutes, or until golden brown on both sides. Using tongs, transfer them to the wire rack and let cool slightly. Serve immediately.
MAKES ABOUT 12 TOMATO SLICESPeanut oil for deep frying 
1 cup ﬁne-grind cornmealSalt and ground white pepper 2 eggs
2 tablespoons water4 green tomatoes, thickly sliced149
Mashed Potato Salad
POTATO SALAD IS SOFT AND FLUFFY IN EAST TEXAS. AT THE NEW ZION 
Missionary Baptist Church Barbecue in Huntsville, it is served with an ice-cream 
scoop. It tastes best when it’s still warm. 
Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, add water to cover generously, and bring 
to a boil over high heat. T urn the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer for  15 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender. 
Drain the potatoes well, transfer to a large bowl, and mash coarsely. Stir in the 
mayonnaise, green onions, pickle relish, pickle juice, and pepper sauce, mixing well, then season with salt. Serve slightly warm or refrigerate, then allow to come to  room temperature before serving. 
SERVES 41½ pounds russet potatoes, peeled  
and cut into 1-inch chunks
½ cup mayonnaise2 green onions, sliced1 tablespoon pickle relish
4 teaspoons pickle juice4 teaspoons hot-pepper sauceSalt 
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHPassing the time in front of New 
Zion Missionary Baptist Church Barbecue in Huntsville.NEW ZION
HOURS
WEDNESDAY 11 - 7
THURSDAY 11 - 7
FRIDAY 11 - 7
SATURDAY 11 - 7
MAY GOD
BLESS YOU
&Enjoy Coca-ColaLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 152
Lloyd Bentsen Highway Rice Salad
BARBECUE JOINTS IN THE RICE-GROWING REGION ALONG HIGHWAY 59  
(Lloyd Bentsen Highway), between Houston and Victoria, all serve some kind of rice 
salad along with the usual potato and macaroni salads. Here’s a modern version.
In a large bowl, toss the rice with the vinaigrette and refrigerate just until the rice  
is cool. 
Remove the rice from the refrigerator; add the tomato, celery, bell pepper, carrot, 
onion, cucumber, olives, pepper sauce, mustard, and yogurt; and stir and toss  to mix well. Garnish with the pecans and cilantro and serve at room temperature.
SERVES 83 cups freshly cooked Texmati rice
½ cup vinaigrette or Italian dressing½ cup chopped tomato½ cup chopped celery½ cup chopped green bell pepper¼ cup diced carrot¼ cup chopped red onion1 cup peeled, seeded, and chopped 
cucumber½ cup chopped black olives
1 tablespoon hot-pepper sauce1 teaspoon prepared mustard½ cup plain yogurt½ cup chopped toasted pecans3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro153
Leon’s Stepped-Up Rice
IF YOU WANT SOMETHING DIFFERENT FROM THE USUAL BEANS OR POTATO  
salad, try this tasty rice dish, which Leon O’Neal offers at his In & Out B-B-Q 
House on Galveston Island. 
Combine the jalapeños, onion, celery, and bell pepper in a food processor and 
pulse just until reduced to a finely chopped paste.
In a large skillet, heat the peanut oil over medium heat. Add the vegetable paste 
and cook, stirring often, for 5 to 7 minutes, or until soft. Add the rice and stir and toss until evenly mixed with the vegetable paste. Season with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.
SERVES 4 TO 63 jalapeño chiles, seeded and  
coarsely chopped
1 onion, coarsely chopped3 celery stalks, chopped1 green bell pepper, seeded and chopped
2 tablespoons peanut oil4 cups freshly cooked Texmati riceSalt and ground black pepper
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 154
Leon O’Neal’s Turnip Greens
AT LEON’S “WORLD’S FINEST” IN & OUT B-B-Q HOUSE ON GALVESTON ISLAND,  
they serve tender ribs and tangy sauce with sensational Southern-style vegetables.  
“It’s all in the seasoning,” says Leon. Here’s his recipe for turnip greens.
T urnip greens often conceal lots of dirt, so wash well in several changes of water 
until no more grit is visible. Chop the greens coarsely. Bring a large pot of water  to a boil; add the greens, turnip, and sugar; and cook for 12 to 15 minutes, or until tender. Drain well. 
In a large skillet, sauté the bacon over medium heat until it renders its fat. Add 
the onion and cook for about 7 minutes, or until the onion is soft. Add the drained vegetables and toss with the bacon and onion, mixing well and heating through.  Add the lemon pepper and season with salt. 
Transfer to a serving dish and serve immediately. Pass the hot sauce at the table. 
SERVES 4
Variation: Green Beans. Substitute 1 pound green beans, trimmed and snapped in half, for the 
turnip greens and omit the sugar. Proceed as directed.1 large bunch turnip greens
1 small turnip, peeled and dicedPinch of sugar6 slices bacon, diced1 onion, diced
1 tablespoon lemon pepperSalt Louisiana hot sauce for serving155
Huntsville Butter Beans
YOU’LL FIND PINTO BEANS SERVED WITH BARBECUE ALL OVER THE STATE,  
but the New Zion Missionary Baptist Church Barbecue is the only place I’ve had 
Southern-style lima beans, a.k.a. butter beans.
Pick over the beans and rinse well. Place in a bowl, add water to cover generously, 
and let soak overnight. 
Drain the beans, discard the water, and transfer the beans to a slow cooker.  
Add the onion, ham hock, and water to cover. Cook on the high setting for 1 hour, then turn the heat to low and cook for 4 to 5 hours, or until meltingly tender.  Season with salt and pepper and serve hot. 
SERVES 61 pound dried lima beans
1 onion, diced1 ham hock, or 6 slices bacon, diced
Salt and ground black pepper 
CELEBRATING JUNETEENTHTHE LAST
OF THEOPEN PITS7Mutton ribs on an open pit at the 
Millheim Harmonie Verein, an old German dance hall near Sealy.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 160
he open-pit barbecue 
tradition that was brought to T exas by Southern cotton- plantation owners and their slaves is still alive today. Just north of where the state’s earli-est cotton culture was established in Stephen F.  Au s t i n’s  c olo ny,  meat is still barbecued in open pits. 
Ironically, it’s not Southerners or African- 
Americans who preserved the old ways, but the 
immigrant groups that opposed slavery and secession in the Civil War era. German  Verein  societies, Czech 
Catholic churches, and Sons of Hermann Halls in the region of the old Austin Colony and the original state capital of Washington on the Brazos still hold annual community barbecues that look amazingly similar  to the open-pit barbecue style of a century ago. If you want to see what old-fashioned Southern pit barbecue once looked like, visit one of these events early in the morning just before the meat comes off the fire.  
In the ghost town of Millheim, there is an old Ger-
man dance hall called the Millheim Harmonie Verein that dates to August 30, 1872. Members of the society gather at the hall every year on Father’s Day to cook eight hundred pounds of barbecue for their annual fund-raiser. They claim their barbecue tradition goes back over a century, and after watching the men cook on the open pits, it’s hard to argue otherwise.
TEating barbecue during a roundup 
at Sheriff Travis Hogue Pool’s ranch in La Salle County, 1941.Cowboy-style ribs are cooked 
directly over hot coals at a barbeque at the LBJ Ranch.163
Until the 1960s, the pigs, calves, and 
sheep to be cooked were slaughtered on the spot, but not anymore. But the “bar-becue gravy” is still cooked in cast-iron washtubs and stirred with boat paddles.
Old-fashioned mutton shoulder and 
mutton ribs, pork shoulder, and beef shoulder clod are the three meat choices. German-style red potatoes in butter and pinto beans are the sides, and plenty of white bread, raw onion slices, and pickles are always available. Beer is sold inside the splendidly preserved old wooden dance hall, along with desserts. 
The Sons of Hermann Hall in Wash-
ington is another place to see barbecue cooked the old-fashioned way on a cinder-block open pit. Bubba Roese was the chairman of the barbecue committee the first year I stopped by. I asked him what he thought about Kreuz Market, Smitty’s, and the German meat markets in Central T exas. “They aren’t really cooking barbecue,” Bubba said. “Barbe-cue isn’t supposed to taste smoky.”
Walter Jetton, who catered Lyndon 
Johnson’s barbecues at the LBJ Ranch, also cooked on an open pit. The idea of enclosing the pit to capture the smoke was crazy, in Jetton’s opinion. 
Jetton came to the attention of the 
American public after catering a “barbe- cue state dinner” in honor of the president- elect of Mexico at the LBJ Ranch. In magazine articles and cookbooks, Jetton baffled Americans by insisting that  if they wanted to make real Texas barbecue, they had to dig holes in their backyards. In one interview, he said, “T o barbecue, you need a pit . . . and 
it definitely shouldn’t be one of those backyard creations with a chimney.” 
Jetton was also a proponent of slow 
cooking in open pits. In this style of bar-becue, “low and slow” was indeed the only way to go. By using coals instead of flaming wood, you avoided flare-ups that would burn the meat. In the days when whole steers or forequarters were cut up for barbecuing, long, slow cook-ing was the only way to get the toughest cuts tender. 
Eventually, Walter Jetton, like most 
T exas barbecuers, abandoned whole steer barbecue in favor of boxed beef cuts—especially brisket. In a letter to Larry Hunt, a lumberman in Minnesota who was looking for advice on barbecu-ing half steers, Jetton wrote, “First we would suggest you abandon the idea of a spit and instead of trying to barbecue the beef in quarters or halves, just buy eight- to ten-pound pieces of boneless brisket points.” The fat layer attached to a brisket melts slowly as the meat cooks. Jetton called brisket a “self-basting cut.”
Long after urban barbecue restau-
rants began to move their cooking into enclosed pits for sanitary reasons, West T exans continued to cook outdoors. Chuck-wagon cooks cooked meat over open fires and simmered beans in cast-iron Dutch ovens. That’s why meat cooked over an open pit is often referred to as “cowboy barbecue.”
Following are a few of Walter Jetton’s 
recipes, in case you are planning a barbe-cue for 250 of your closest friends.  
THE LAST OF THE OPEN PITSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 164
Walter Jetton’s Barbecued Beef for 250
ALTHOUGH A BARBECUE FOR A COUPLE OF HUNDRED PEOPLE WAS NO BIG 
deal in T exas, the rest of the country was fascinated by the doings down at the LBJ 
Ranch. Magazines and newspapers featured T exas barbecue recipes, and the  White House received letters asking for tips. Here’s a recipe derived from Walter Jetton’s advice. 
Dig a pit 3 feet deep, 4 feet wide, and 40 feet long. Arrange a layer of wood (any 
type of hardwood can be used) across the bottom of the pit and start the fire.  Keep the fire at the same height for about 5 hours and then let it die down to coals. 
Place a length of iron pipe across the pit every 3 feet and then cover the pipe 
frame with heavy wire mesh. Tie the mesh securely in place so the meat won’t get dumped into the fire. Make a 1-foot opening under the wire at regular intervals through which additional coals can be added. Start another fire to one side so that additional coals will be available. 
Season the meat generously with salt and pepper and the rub and place the pieces 
on the wire mesh, being careful not to overlap them. You need to leave plenty of room for the smoke to come up. Cook the meat, basting it with the mop sauce every 30 minutes and turning it frequently so that it will cook evenly. Allow at least  18 hours’ cooking time, and throw a little water on the coals once or twice during  the cooking time to steam the meat with intense moist heat. Do not allow any blaze after the meat is put on—only coals! The meat is ready when it is fork tender.
Allow the meat to rest for 15 minutes before carving. Cut the meat into thin slices 
against the grain and serve with the barbecue sauce, rolls, pickles, and onions.
MAKES ENOUGH BARBECUED BEEF FOR SANDWICHES FOR 25035 top-quality beef briskets (about  
10 pounds each) or 300 pounds beef, cut into 6- to 8-pound pieces 
Salt and ground black pepper10 pounds 32 Pounds of Dry Rub  
(page 166), or to taste6 gallons Jetton’s Beef Stock Mop  
(facing page)
Cold River Cattle Company BBQ Sauce for 
250 (page 168), heated
Sandwich rolls, pickle slices, and onion 
slices for making sandwiches165
Jetton’s Beef Stock Mop
JETTON STARTED HIS MOP SAUCE WITH A BEEF 
stock made from the bones left over from the butch-
ering of the steer. He used a full-size cotton mop to baste hundreds of pounds of meat; for home cooks, however, he recommended miniature cotton mops used for dishwashing. Those little cotton mops aren’t used much for dishes anymore, but you can still find them in stores selling barbecue and kitchen goods. 
Combine all of the ingredients in a large vessel 
and stir well to dissolve the salt and MSG and mix the ingredients thoroughly. Let stand overnight before using to baste barbecued meats. Discard any leftover mop after using.
MAKES ABOUT 8 GALLONS America’s First  
State Barbecue
Menu for the barbecue  
given by President and Mrs.  Lyndon B. Johnson honoring President-elect of Mexico Gustavo Díaz Ordaz and his wife, held on the banks  of the Pedernales River  at the LBJ Ranch at 1 
P.M., 
Thursday, November 12, 1964.
Barbecued brisket
Barbecued pork ribsBarbecued chickenHot links Ranch-style beansSourdough biscuitsGerman potato saladTexas coleslawDill picklesSliced onionsFried apple pieSix-shooter coffee  and Iced tea4 gallons beef stock
¾ cup salt¾ cup MSG¾ cup dry mustard¾ cup paprika½ cup garlic powder½ cup chili powder¼ cup ground bay leaf
½ cup hot-pepper sauce2 quarts Worcestershire 
sauce
2 quarts vinegar2 quarts vegetable oil
THE LAST OF THE OPEN PITSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 166
32 Pounds of Dry Rub
SALT COMES IN 25-POUND BAGS, SO MOST OF THE BARBECUE RUBS IN THE OLD 
days started with this quantity. Here’s an old meat-market recipe for dry rub.
Combine all of the ingredients in a large vessel and mix well. Store in an airtight 
container at room temperature for up to 1 month. Rub on meats before barbecuing.
MAKES 32 POUNDS
Texas-Size Coleslaw
HERE’S A LARGE-QUANTITY RECIPE FOR OLD-FASHIONED COLESLAW.  
The salad gets better as it sits.
In a large food-grade plastic tub (or several smaller containers), combine all  
of the ingredients and mix well. Cover and allow to mellow in the refrigerator for a  few hours before serving, mixing every 30 minutes. Store in the refrigerator for  up to 4 days.
MAKES ABOUT 20 POUNDS25 pounds salt
3 pounds coarsely ground black pepper2 pounds sugar1 pound chili powder
1 pound garlic powder
12 heads green cabbage, cored  
and shredded
6 pounds carrots, peeled and shredded2 cups sugar¼ cup salt 2 tablespoons ground black pepper
1 tablespoon garlic powder2 cups distilled white vinegar8 cups mayonnaise Walter Jetton serves up a plate 
to LBJ and guests at America’s first barbecue state dinner.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 168
A Cowboy Barbecue
“Nine months of the year . . . 
you didn’t see hide nor hair of the headquarters. You saw  the ramrod . . . you saw the foreman . . . but what you didn’t see were any signs of civilization. I put in ﬁve years with about the same routine. 
“We boys began hearing 
rumors that the railroad was going to have a big dance and barbecue when the end of the line reached O’Donnell, Texas [in 1912]. Well, that was all I wanted to know. A dance and  a barbecue! At the end of the day, there was at least ﬁve thousand people there. Tons  of meat was barbecued in advance, but not near enough.”
—Frank March, WPA 
interview, 1938 Cold River Cattle 
Company BBQ Sauce  for 250
RICHARD FLORES DOES THE COOKING FOR THE  
big parties at the Cold River Cattle Company 
Barbecue T eam’s Houston Livestock and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-Off booth. He also does a lot of catering jobs, so he tends to make a lot of barbecue sauce at one time. Here’s his recipe for a large crowd.
In a large pot, combine all of the ingredients and 
place over a high propane fire. Bring to a boil, stir-ring until the sugar dissolves. Lower the heat to a simmer and cook, stirring frequently, for 15 minutes, or until slightly thickened. 
Remove from the heat and process with a  
restaurant-size immersion blender. Use immediately, or let cool, transfer to airtight containers, and store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
MAKES ABOUT 6 GALLONSSix #10 (114-ounce) cans 
ketchup 
1½ gallons cider vinegar1 gallon rice vinegarFour 14-ounce cans chipotle 
chiles in adobo sauce 3 cups brown sugar
1 cup celery salt½ cup ground black pepper4 cups chopped garlic4 cups chili powder2 cups whole-grain mustardLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 170
Lorenzo Vences’s  
Sirloin 
COOPER’S OLD TIME PIT BAR-B-Q PRESERVED  
the “cowboy barbecue” open-pit style. At Cooper’s, 
mesquite wood is burned down to coals in a fireplace and then the coals are shoveled into enclosed pits. The meat is cooked by direct heat twenty-eight to thirty inches above the coals with the lid closed. When the steak is done to 140˚F , it is moved to a holding pit where it continues to cook slowly until it is sold. Pitmaster Lorenzo Vences at Cooper’s in  Llano estimated the heat in his pit at 350˚ to 400˚F . 
Lorenzo Vences
COOPER’S OLD  
TIME PIT BAR-B-Q
“Mesquite coals give the meat 
a lot of ﬂavor without over- smoking it,” says Lorenzo Vences, longtime pitmaster at Cooper’s in Llano. “This is the best barbecue in Texas.”1 USDA Choice beef sirloin 
steak (2 to 2½ pounds 
and 1¾ inches thick) or USDA Choice beef sirloin tip roast (2 to 2½ pounds; branded beef such as Black Angus or Certiﬁed Hereford preferred)Salt and coarsely ground 
black pepper LEGENDS171
Allow the meat to come to room temperature and season it all over with salt and 
pepper. Light mesquite chunks in a starter chimney. Pour the hot coals into your firebox. Light another batch of mesquite chunks a few minutes later. Maintain a temperature between 350˚ and 400˚F . 
Place the meat at least 18 inches directly above the coals and cook, turning once, 
until well browned and an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part registers 120˚F . Add more coals as needed to maintain the heat, and douse any flare-ups with a spray bottle. 
When the steak is well charred, move it to a cooler part of the grate where it can 
cook indirectly until it reaches the desired temperature. For medium, remove it from the smoker when it is firm to the touch, between 135˚ and 140˚F . The meat will continue to cook after it is removed; allow it to rest before carving. Remove the meat at 145˚F for medium-well and 155˚F for well-done.
SERVES 4 TO 6
Variation: Cooper’s Cowboy Pork Chops. Substitute 2-inch-thick double-cut bone-in pork loin 
chops for the sirloin. Move them to a cooler spot when they reach 125˚F, and remove them from the grill at 145˚F.
THE LAST OF THE OPEN PITSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 172
Barbecued Goat
THE BRADY GOAT COOK-OFF, HELD EVERY YEAR 
over Labor Day Weekend in Brady, is a barbecue 
contest devoted exclusively to goat. Lonnie Rankin of Miles, T exas, and his team, Miles Messenger Messy Cookers, have won the Brady Superbowl (open only to previous winners) twice. This is Lonnie’s simplified recipe, for people who want  to try to barbecue goat in the backyard.
Rub the goat steaks all over with the dry rub  
and allow them to come to room temperature. Light  an indirect fire in your barbecue with a water pan.  Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  275˚ and 325˚F. 
Place the steaks directly over the coals until you 
get a nice color, turning once, then move them to indirect heat and cook, turning and brushing the steaks with the butter every 30 to 45 minutes. If the fire gets hot, turn and baste the steaks more often. The meat should be tender after 3 to 4 hours, but start tasting it before then, because if you cook it too long, it will dry out. Great barbecued goat is all a matter of timing. Serve hot.
SERVES 4 TO 6Goat Ropers’  
Barbecue
Spanish shepherds raised 
cattle for money, sheep for wool, and goats for meat.  The herders brought this tradition along with livestock to Texas and northern Mexico. In 1765, a Spanish census counted tens of thousands of head of cattle, sheep, and goats belonging to the  Spanish missions on the  South Texas plains. 
The Spanish pastores , or 
shepherds, adapted their style of herding to the vast distances by working on horseback. The mounted shepherds became known as vaqueros , which we 
translate as “cowboys.” 
After the missions were 
abandoned, the livestock proliferated in the wild. At the end of the Civil War, there  were some three million long-horns in Texas. The early  Texas cowboys who went to herd these wild cattle adopted the clothing, saddlery, and roping techniques of the vaqueros. They were called “buckaroos,” a mispronuncia-tion of vaqueros .
A few cowboys out “cow 
hunting” couldn’t eat a whole longhorn, so they followed the example of the vaqueros and ate goat. An eighteen- or twenty-pound cabrito  was just 
the right amount of meat  for dinner, which is why goat  meat has remained a favorite of cowboys to this day. Barbe-cued goat is a Texas culinary tradition that’s now more than three centuries old.1 goat hindquarter (2½ to  
3 pounds) cut into  1-inch-thick steaks¼ cup Rankin’s Spicy Dry 
Rub (facing page) 
1 cup butter, melted173
Rankin’s Spicy Dry Rub
YOU PROBABLY DON’T LIKE MSG IN YOUR FOOD, BUT YOU PROBABLY DON’T 
cook much goat, either. Substitute a meat tenderizer that doesn’t contain MSG if 
 you prefer.
Combine all of the ingredients in a shaker bottle, cap tightly, and shake the bottle 
to mix well. Store at room temperature for up to 2 months.
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS½ cup salt
¹⁄³ cup ground black pepper 
¼ cup paprika ¼ cup chili powder 
½ cup garlic powder 2 tablespoons MSG
THE LAST OF THE OPEN PITSFEEDING THE 
COTTON PICKERS
The Rise of the Barbecue BusinessNO8Cotton pickers on their way 
home to Mexico stop for a snack and a cold drink at a filling station. 
Photo by Russell LeeLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK178
t was the cotton pickers who 
turned T exas barbecue into a 
big business. From the late 
1800s until cotton picking was 
mechanized in the early 1960s, 
migrant workers picked their 
way across the T exas cotton 
belt every year, beginning in 
the Lower Rio Grande Valley, 
where cotton ripened in late June, and 
working their way up to Lubbock, where the 
cotton was ready to harvest in September. 
In 1938, the number of migrant workers  
in the state was estimated at around 600,000 
people. The monumental task of feeding 
this army gave rise to the first generation of 
T exas barbecue entrepreneurs. 
The pickers descended on the grocery stores and 
meat markets of the small towns where they worked, 
looking for anything that was ready to eat. Their 
favorites were the smoked cuts and sausages at the 
meat market, which they ate right off of the butcher 
paper with crackers, white bread, pickles, and  
whatever else they could find on the store’s shelves.
“My daddy, William Harris Smolik, opened 
Smolik’s Meat Market in Karnes City in 1918,” 
remembers William Benedict “Bill” Smolik.  
ICotton pickers in a field near  
San Antonio, 1930.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 180
The Long Walk
“Mexican cotton pickers . . . 
picked the cotton in the Lower Rio Grande Valley and then moved northward, picking cotton as it matured and even-tually winding up in East Texas. . . . When the cotton was all picked, they would walk back  . . . to Mexico.”
—J. K. Wells, in an interview 
with John and Ruby Lomax, 1939“The pickers ate barbecue at our place for breakfast, 
lunch, and dinner in those days. Dad used to keep the money in a bushel basket during cotton-picking season. And it was my job to count it. I remember one Saturday we made a thousand dollars in one day, selling barbecue at fifty cents a pound.”
“Cotton pickers ate at the meat markets because 
they weren’t allowed in restaurants,” said Joe Capello, the manager of City Market in Luling. “They bought their meat out of the back door and then they sat on the ground in the parking lot  and ate it right there.”
From the end of the Civil War until the Great 
Depression, the pickers were mostly Hispanics.  But in 1930, Herbert Hoover’s secretary of labor,  William N. Doak, began deporting undocumented aliens. Federal immigration authorities rounded  up 82,400 Hispanics in the American Southwest and “repatriated” them to Mexico in hopes of relieving unemployment for American citizens. 
For a few years during the worst of the Depres-
sion, Okies, busted farmers, and other whites joined blacks and Hispanics in the cotton fields. And in  the towns near the fields where they picked cotton, the poor whites were treated with the same disdain. In his book The White Scourge: Mexicans, Blacks, 
and Poor Whites in Texas Cotton Culture , author 
Neil Foley explains how cotton culture made the people on the lowest rung of its economic ladder  the untouchables of its caste system, regardless of skin color. 
“Barbecue joints were on the wrong side of the 
tracks in those days,” explained Vencil Mares  at his bar, the Taylor Cafe. “You didn’t see women or children hanging around Southside Market in Elgin. And this place was even worse. I used to break up a knife fight in here almost every night. It didn’t bother me a bit in those days. I had just come back from the Normandy invasion!” 181
Such T exas barbecue traditions 
as using a sheet of butcher paper for a plate, eating without utensils, and wrap-ping smoked meat in plain white bread are frowned upon by polite society. Few people understand these odd practices anymore, and even fewer remember that they trace their origins to the days when the cotton pickers came to town.
The recipes in this chapter include 
some of the cotton pickers’ old favorites, along with some modern sandwiches that recall the innovative ways in which itin-erant farmworkers once turned the sim-plest ingredients into satisfying meals.“Cotton-picking season lasted for 
six weeks,” Edgar Black Jr., of Black’s Barbecue in Lockhart, told me. Picking began in Lockhart in late July or early August and ended on September 16, Mexican Independence Day. “And all during that time there were hundreds of cotton pickers around the square every day. They started coming in the minute we opened at 7:00 
A.M. , and they 
kept coming until we closed. We served nothing but beef and sausage on butcher paper with crackers on the side. That was it. We didn’t have time for anything else. Sausage was a dime, three rings  for a quarter.” 
During the harvest season, gas 
stations, beer halls, and anybody with a smoker got into the barbecue busi-ness. Taylor, a cotton-shipping center, had a high concentration of barbecue joints. Louie Mueller’s, which began as a grocery store, and Taylor Cafe, which opened in 1948 as a beer joint, are still two of the state’s most famous. 
In the 1990s, Southside Market in 
Elgin and Kreuz Market in Lockhart,  
two T exas barbecue institutions that built their reputations as rough-and-tumble joints in the days of the cotton pickers, left their original buildings and moved into pleasantly decorated new restaurants; and with those shifts, T exas barbecue began evolving into  a wholesome family business. But  hopefully, we will always remember  our roots.
FEEDING THE COTTON PICKERSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 182
Vencil Mares
TAYLOR CAFE
Vencil Mares is the dean of 
Central Texas pitmasters.  He began his barbecue career at the original location of Southside Market in downtown Elgin, where he learned how  to make Elgin sausage.  Mares opened the Taylor Cafe in 1948, and the place hasn’t changed since then. It still has two entrances and two bars— a leftover from the days of segregation.Vencil Mares’s  
Bohunk Sausage
VENCIL MARES OF THE TAYLOR CAFE IN TAYLOR 
learned how to make sausage at Southside Market 
in Elgin. He started working there in 1946. This is his own sausage recipe, and since he’s a Bohemian Czech, he calls it bohunk sausage.
Grind the beef rump and pork shoulder together 
through the ¼-inch plate of a meat grinder (the chili plate). In a large bowl, combine the ground meat with the salt and pepper and knead the mixture with your hands until everything is well blended. 
In a small skillet, heat a little vegetable oil. Form 
a meatball-size piece of the mixture into a small patty  and fry it. Taste for seasoning and adjust as needed. 
Soak the hog casings in lukewarm water. Using 
a sausage stuffer or a pastry bag, stuff the meat mixture into the hog casings and tie into 4- to 6-inch links. The sausage will keep refrigerated for 3 to  4 days, or frozen for up to 2 months.
When you’re ready to cook the sausages, poach 
them in warm (140˚F) water for 10 minutes or until set. Meanwhile, set up your smoker with wood chips or chunks at 275˚F . Sear the links on a grate over hot coals for 3 minutes on each side, or until nicely browned. Move them to indirect heat over a drip pan and smoke for 30 minutes, or until cooked through. Serve hot.
MAKES 10 POUNDS6 pounds boneless beef 
rump roast, cut into 
pieces or beef trimmings
4 pounds fatty pork 
shoulder, cut into strips
¼ cup salt 3 tablespoons coarsely 
ground black pepper
Vegetable oil for fryingMedium hog casings 
(available at butcher shops)LEGENDS183
Elgin Hot Guts 
There’s a bottle of hot-pepper 
sauce on the table at almost every old meat market—even  the ones that refuse to serve barbecue sauce. Lots of people wonder why. “It’s to heat up the sausage,” Bryan Bracewell, a third-generation barbecue man, explains.
The most famous barbecue 
sausage in Texas is Elgin (pronounced with a soft g) 
sausage, or “Elgin hot guts,” as the old-timers called it.  This spicy sausage originated at the Southside Market,  one of the oldest barbecue operations in the state.  The original meat market in downtown Elgin opened  in 1886. In 1992, Southside moved to a larger, cleaner location out on the highway. The kitchen also toned down the spiciness of the sausage.
“Elgin hot guts were really 
spicy. We wanted to appeal to families,” Bryan Bracewell says. “So over the years, we’ve cut way back on the cayenne.” Texas barbecue sausage isn’t as hot as it used to be in the good ol’ days. 
And that’s why you’ll ﬁnd  
a bottle of hot sauce on every table.Vencil’s Slow Beans 
DON’T BE IN A RUSH TO COOK BEANS, VENCIL 
Mares advises. They taste best when they are cooked 
very slowly. A slow cooker is the perfect cooking  vessel for these home-cooked pintos.
Pick over the beans and rinse well. Transfer  
the beans to a slow cooker, add the remaining ingre-dients, and stir to mix. Cook on the high setting  for 2 hours, then turn the heat to low and cook for  8 hours, or for up to overnight. The beans should be very tender. Check occasionally and add more water as needed to keep the beans covered. 
Taste and adjust the seasoning. Serve hot. 
MAKES ABOUT 6 CUPS; SERVES 6 TO 8
Variation: Beans and Sausage. At the Taylor Cafe, Vencil 
Mares serves a bowl of these beans topped with sliced bohunk sausage (see page 182) and a little chopped onion. You can spike the beans with hot sauce, if you like. Serve the dish with lots of saltines.2 cups dried pinto beans
6 cups water, plus more as 
needed
½ onion, ﬁnely chopped1 cup ﬁnely chopped bacon 1 tablespoon chili powder
1 teaspoon salt1 teaspoon ground black 
pepper 
FEEDING THE COTTON PICKERSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 184
Cecil Sanchez  
and the Bohemian Special
“Half Mexican, half German”  
is the way Cecil Sanchez describes his ancestry. Cecil is the pitmaster at the Mustang Creek BBQ in Louise. It’s a rural gas station, convenience store, and barbecue joint in  the Czech enclave south of  El Campo. Bottles of homemade sauerkraut for sale are lined up next to the cash register. 
The ﬁrst time I stopped by,  
I noticed Cecil carving up the fatty point of a juicy, black barbecued brisket. I started  to order the sliced brisket,  but then I saw the signature sandwich on the overhead plastic menu board: Bohemian Special.
It turned out to be a sliced 
brisket sandwich topped with barbecued Czech sausage.  No, the sausage is not made in-house, Cecil told me. The links came from Prasek’s Hillje Smokehouse, a legendary meat market and former feed store and saloon in the little Czech community of Hillje three miles north on Highway 59. (You can mail order the sausages at www.praseks.com.)
After I placed my order,  
I hovered over the butcher block to ensure that my sand-wich was made from the fatty pieces that had just hit the  cutting board. I ate the sand-wich in the parking lot. Mustang Creek’s 
Bohemian Special
THIS RECIPE ASSUMES YOU HAVE SOME  
magnificent barbecued brisket and hot smoked 
Czech sausage on hand.
Spread the cut sides of the toasted bun with  
the barbecue sauce and place the bottom half, cut-side up, on a plate. Arrange the brisket slices on  the bottom of the bun and season with salt and pep-per. Layer the sausage over the brisket, center the onion slice on top, and then spread the pickle chips over the onion. Close the sandwich with the bun  top, and serve. 
To make the sandwich easier to eat, wrap it in 
white sandwich paper or wax paper to hold the bun together. 
MAKES 1 SANDWICH1 large hamburger bun or 
kaiser roll, split and 
toasted
¼ cup barbecue sauce of 
your choice
8 ounces barbecued brisket 
from the fatty point  thinly sliced Salt and ground black 
pepper
1 link Czech sausage, 
barbecued and  quartered or sliced lengthwise
1 large onion slice5 pickle chipsLEGENDS185
Railhead’s Barbecued 
Bologna Sandwiches
I THOUGHT THIS SOUNDED LIKE A HORRIBLE  
idea  until I tried it. Barbecued bologna on a bun tastes 
like barbecued hot dogs. At the Railhead Smokehouse in Fort Worth,  these sandwiches are served with 
french fries and cold beer.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water 
pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 250˚ and 300˚F. 
Smoke the bologna for 1 hour over indirect heat.  
It should have a little char on the edges and swell until it is about to burst. 
Spread the cut sides of the toasted buns with the 
barbecue sauce and place the bottom half of each bun, cut-side up, on a plate. Cut the bologna into four thick slices, and place one slice on each bun bottom. T op with the onion and pickle slices, dividing them evenly, then serve immediately. 
MAKES 4 SANDWICHESThe smoked beef oozed 
buttery-tasting tallow. The Prasek’s coarse-ground beef-and-pork sausage was seasoned with a lot of black pepper. The raw onion, pick-les, and barbecue sauce were a ﬁne complement. In 2008, I declared Mustang Creek BBQ’s Bohemian Special a masterpiece, and told anyone who would listen all about it. 
In the last few years, 
barbecue joints around the state have come up with their own spins on the brisket and sausage sandwich that Cecil Sanchez created in his humble gas station–barbecue joint in rural Louise. In fact, nowadays it’s hard to ﬁnd a barbecue joint in Texas that doesn’t  sell a 
brisket and sausage sandwich. 
I’m not sure what Cecil 
thinks about that, but I say, “the more the merrier.”
One 1-pound whole bologna 
(large size)
4 hamburger buns, split and 
toastedBarbecue sauce of your 
choice
½ cup chopped onion8 slices dill pickle 
FEEDING THE COTTON PICKERSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 186
How to Eat Sausage
The cotton pickers’ habit of 
eating smoked meat with whatever they could ﬁnd on the shelves of a grocery store gave us the practice of making sandwiches out of white bread, tortillas, hamburger buns,  and crackers. Here are a few quick tips for making barbecued sausage sandwiches.Sausage WrapWrap a ﬂour tortilla or a slice  of white bread around a link  of barbecued sausage. Spread a little barbecue sauce on  the sausage and sprinkle with chopped onion, if desired.Sausage CrackersSlice a sausage into rounds and put each slice on a saltine. Sprinkle with Louisiana hot sauce and top with a 1-inch square of onion.Sausage on a BunCut a sausage link in half crosswise, and then slice the sausage halves lengthwise. Split a hamburger bun or  kaiser roll, toast the halves, and spread the cut side of each half with the barbecue sauce of your choice. Line up the sausage slices on the bottom of the bun, top with pickles and onion, and close with the bun top. Black’s Simple Slaw
WHEN BLACK’S BARBECUE IN LOCKHART  
finally decided to start serving side dishes, the staff  
vowed to keep them as simple as possible. Here’s  the kitchen’s easy recipe for coleslaw.
In a small bowl, stir together the olive oil, vin-
egar, salt, pepper, celery seeds, celery salt, sugar, and mustard, mixing well. Put the cabbage in a large bowl, add the oil mixture, and stir and toss until  well mixed. Cover and allow to mellow in the refrig-erator overnight before serving.
MAKES ABOUT 8 CUPS; SERVES 6 TO 8½ cup olive oil
¼ cup distilled white vinegar1 teaspoon salt1 teaspoon ground black 
pepper
1 teaspoon celery seeds1 teaspoon celery salt
1 teaspoon sugar1 teaspoon prepared 
mustard
1 head green cabbage, 
cored and shredded187
A Woman at  
Novosad’s Market
“My granddad started barbe- 
cuing in Taylor. He sold his place there to Rudy Mikeska and moved here in 1959,” Nathan Novosad said from behind the counter of Novosad’s Market in Halletts ville.
Novosad is a Czech name,  and Hallettsville is a Czech town. “My dad served barbe cue on butcher paper 
without any sides, but when my wife, Laura, got into the business, we started making beans and slaw.” 
“I freaked people out when 
I began working here,” Laura giggled. “First a woman and then side dishes.” Cold canned peaches were the only side dish served with smoked meat before Laura took over. “It’s a tradition around here to eat cold canned peaches with barbecue in the summer. I tried to switch from peaches in heavy syrup to fancy home-made ones, but everybody got upset,” Laura remembers.
“Some things you just can’t 
change.”Laura Novosad’s  
Confetti Slaw
“I CAN’T STAND SWEET COLESLAW,” LAURA 
Novosad told me. “So I came up with this recipe. It 
looks real pretty with all the colors. Beans and cole-slaw have gone over pretty well here at Novosad’s.  But we still get a lot of requests for canned peaches.” Serve this slaw with any kind of barbecue—and  with canned peaches.
Shred both cabbages and the carrots and combine 
in a large bowl. Add the Italian dressing and toss and stir to mix well. Allow to marinate for 1 hour before serving. 
MAKES ABOUT 8 CUPS; SERVES 6 TO 81 head green cabbage, 
cored
½ head red cabbage, cored
3 large carrots, peeled1 cup Wish-Bone Italian 
dressing or the Italian dressing of your choice
FEEDING THE COTTON PICKERSLEGENDS9TENDER BONES
Urban Rib JointsThe late Bobby Lewis served 
up barbecue and the blues at his now-shuttered Third Ward nightclub, Miss Ann’s Playpen.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 192
fter the Emancipation 
Proclamation was signed, African-Americans from East T exas and the rest of the South gravitated to large cities. In every city of size, they estab-
lished at least one outpost of Southern-style 
barbecue. Many of these black urban barbe-cue joints were justly famous for their ribs. A few of them became legendary institu-tions that were considered treasures by their hometowns.
Miller’s in San Antonio was one of the best-loved 
barbecue joints in the state for many years. Founder 
Harvey Miller grew up in the farm town of Floresville. He started Miller’s Bar-B-Q in the back of his house in San Antonio in 1941, selling barbecue sandwiches for fifteen cents apiece, plates for a quarter. His daughters, Myrtle and Bernice, kept the business going until 1990. Miller’s Bar-B-Q was never listed  in the yellow pages and never advertised, but  it attracted all races, classes, and age groups to an obscure suburban backyard for fifty years. The Washington Post , Texas Monthly , and other publica-
tions took note. 
AMyrtle Miller Johnson serving ribs 
in 1990. Myrtle ordered that Miller’s Bar-B-Q in San Antonio be torn down upon her death so that no one could give the family a bad name with inferior barbecue.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 194
The business operated in violation of 
zoning and health department regula-tions, but the inspectors told the Millers that the barbecue joint was too impor-tant to the city of San Antonio to write any citations. The Millers were famous for their ribs and for their secret-recipe barbecue sauce. “Everybody wants the secret of my famous barbecue sauce,” Myrtle told an interviewer in 1990 when the place closed. “People have offered to buy the recipe, and I’ve never been tempted to sell it. We worked on it together, Mama, Daddy, and me.” 
Myrtle Miller Johnson died in 1999 
at the age of ninety-six. She took the barbecue sauce recipe to her grave. 
Sam’s on East 12th Street in Austin 
was a favorite of blues guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughan and is still popular with the late-night music crowd. Unlike the old meat markets out in the country, which often sell out at noon and close up before five, urban barbecue joints like Sam’s are hopping at three o’clock in the morning. Sam Mays, who was born in Round Rock, opened Sam’s in 1978. Son Willie and daughter Wanda are in charge these days. When Sam’s burned down in 1993, the entire com-munity pitched in to rebuild the place. Volunteers donated time, money, and materials with no strings attached—just to keep Sam’s in business.The barbecue joint called Pizzitola’s  
on Shepherd Drive in Houston traces its history back to the 1930s, when it was known as Shepherd Drive Bar-B-Q. It was opened by John Davis and his wife, Leila. In the era of segregation, it was a blacks-only restaurant. Legend has it that the barbecue was so good, white River Oaks residents bought ribs to go out of the back door and ate at cable-spool tables in the parking lot. 
When John Davis passed away in 
the early 1980s, the family wasn’t inter-ested in running the restaurant. But life-long barbecue buff Jerry Pizzitola, who had been eating there for years, couldn’t bear to see the place go out of business, so he offered to lease the restaurant from the family. The original wood-fired brick pits, which are the oldest in Hous-ton, were grandfathered under the lease arrangement. The restaurant still serves two-and-a-half-pound slabs of spareribs  
seasoned with nothing but salt and  pepper. They are amazingly crispy. 
Everybody cooks ribs these days, 
and all kinds of techniques come in and out of style. But we can thank legendary black barbecue men like Harvey Miller, Sam Mays, and John Davis for making smoky “bones” such a big deal in T exas. Wanda Mays and friends in front of 
Sam’s BBQ in Austin.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 196
Falls County Easy Pork Ribs
ROCKNEY TERRY (SEE PAGE 76) GAVE ME THIS EASY RECIPE FOR PORK RIBS. 
Wrapping the ribs in aluminum foil after a couple of hours of smoking is a quick way 
to produce the falling-apart texture. T erry likes his ribs without sauce. “It’s like a good steak. Who needs sauce?” he says.
Combine the salt, pepper, sugar, and garlic powder in a shaker bottle and shake 
to mix well. Pat the ribs dry, then season them all over with the seasoning mix and rub it into the meat. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep 
up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 250˚ and 300˚F . 
Place the ribs, bone-side down, in the smoker as far away from the fire as pos-
sible. Cook for 2 to 2½ hours, or until the ribs are a nice color. 
Remove the rack from the smoker and wrap the ribs in aluminum foil. Return 
the ribs to the smoker and continue to cook for 1 hour longer, or until the ribs are falling-apart tender. Serve hot with barbecue sauce, if desired.
SERVES 2 TO 4
Variation: 4 and Ups. This recipe will also work well on larger rib racks, but you’ll need to 
increase the cooking time to 3½ to 4 hours on the smoker and to about 2 hours in the foil. 1 tablespoon salt
1 tablespoon coarsely ground black pepper1 tablespoon sugar1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 rack 3½ and down pork spareribs Barbecue sauce of your choice (optional)197
PORK RIB TERMINOLOGY 
3½ and down:   Most Texas barbecue 
joints and all top cook-off competitors insist 
on 3½ and down pork spareribs. This is a 
meat industry classification that refers to the  
weight of the ribs (under 3½ pounds). Due  
to the increasing demand for ribs, these choice 
spareribs are getting harder and harder  
to find. 
To get your hands on some 3½ and down 
ribs, you’ll need to find a real butcher. Don’t 
confuse the average meat-counter attendant 
at the supermarket with a butcher. When  
I asked for 3½ and down ribs at one super -
market, the guy behind the scales offered to 
cut a 5-pound slab in half! Discount stores 
sometimes sell 3½ and down ribs in cases 
and three-packs. But your best bet is to order 
them from a quality meat market or the head 
butcher at a good grocery store. 
Baby back ribs:  These are the very 
tender but very expensive under-2-pound 
racks of ribs. They are favored in grilling 
recipes because they cook very quickly. You 
can substitute baby backs for 3½ and downs in 
any of these recipes. Just decrease the cooking 
time a little. 
4 and up:  These giant racks of ribs  
(4 pounds and up) come from larger hogs and 
are not the best for barbecuing. You will find 5- and even 6-pound racks in grocery stores 
these days. Even the 3½ and down ribs sold in 
many meat markets are actually larger ribs 
that have been cut down to a lower weight. 
But a 5-pound rack that has been cut down 
to 3½ pounds doesn’t cook the same as a rack 
from a smaller pig that weighed 3½ pounds  
to begin with. 
Cook-off competitors have devised some 
elaborate techniques to get these giant racks 
tender. Be sure to leave yourself 6 to 7 hours  
to cook this size.
St. Louis cut:  To trim a rack of ribs  
St. Louis style, you cut off the breastbone, 
back flap, and lower ribs to produce a 
squared-up rack that fits nicely on the grill. 
The breastbone is connected to the top few 
ribs; it runs north and south while the ribs run 
east and west. Removing the breastbone also 
makes carving at the table much easier.
Skinning your ribs:  There is  
a membrane on the bone side of a rack of ribs 
that many barbecuers like to remove. Some 
argue that this process speeds cooking time; 
some say it makes the ribs more tender. When 
cooking 4 and ups with a braising liquid, 
it is definitely a good idea to remove the 
membrane, so that the steam can more easily 
penetrate the meat.
Trim breastbone and  
lower ribsCut off the back flap and remove 
the skin if desiredCarve the ribs
TENDER BONES
Pitmaster Howard Rivers 
checks a slab of ribs at the New Zion Missionary Baptist Church Barbecue in Huntsville.Cook 3½ and down pork ribs 
until the bones protrude and the rack is just about to fall apart.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 202
New Zion Ribs
AT NEW ZION MISSIONARY BAPTIST CHURCH  
Barbecue in Huntsville, ribs are cooked on the 
smoker for three hours and then held, a dozen racks at a time, in a large ice chest. The ice chest keeps the ribs hot and traps the steam so they become more tender. You can accomplish the same thing by  dousing the ribs with barbecue sauce and wrapping them in aluminum foil. 
Season the ribs on both sides with the dry rub, 
wrap them in plastic wrap, and put them in the refrigerator overnight. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat. Use wood 
chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 250˚ and 300˚F . 
Place the ribs, bone-side down, on the smoker  
as far away from the fire as possible. Cook for 3 to  3½ hours, turning the ribs every hour for the first  2 hours and then every 30 minutes. New Zion  
Missionary  Baptist Church Barbecue
Howard Rivers lifts the lid of 
the steel barbecue pit and sticks a huge fork into a slab of ribs. You know when they’re done because the fork slides through easy, he tells me.
Sitting around, shooting the 
breeze with the guys on the front porch of the New Zion Missionary Baptist Church Barbecue in Huntsville looks like a ﬁne way to spend the afternoon. The scene reminds me more of a barbecue in my backyard than the hustle and bustle of a restaurant (except that there isn’t any beer). I pull up a chair and join a conversa-tion about this year’s pecan harvest. Barbecue may not actually be a religion in Texas, but the two institutions are closely associated. 
East Texas camp meetings 
put on by traveling preachers always featured free barbecue. The sponsors of the meeting would donate sheep, goats, and cattle, and the smell of the meat cooking would attract “joiners” from all around. The preaching, testifying, and sing-ing of hymns would continue for as long as the barbecue held out. 
The Texas camp meeting, 
barbecue style, is still going strong here at Mount Zion Missionary Baptist. Sitting down with the congregation in the funky little church hall is an experience every true barbecue believer should have at least once. It’s like a pilgrim-age to Mecca—only with pork. 1 rack 3½ and down pork 
spareribs 
TexJoy Bar-B-Q Seasoning or 
dry rub of your choiceBarbecue sauce of your 
choice, heated203
Remove the ribs from the smoker and cut the 
rack in half crosswise. Brush both halves on both sides with the heated barbecue sauce—do not use cold sauce!—and wrap them in aluminum foil. Return the ribs to the smoker (or place in a 250˚F oven) for 15 to 30 minutes, or until they’re falling-apart tender. 
Remove the ribs from the smoker, unwrap and 
carve the ribs between the bones, pile onto a platter, and serve hot with extra sauce on the side.
SERVES 2 TO 4The barbecue began 
in 1981 when Sister Ward cooked some barbecue to feed volunteers who were painting the church. The barbecue stopped trafﬁc, as passing motorists begged to buy some freshly cooked ribs for dinner.Selling barbecue was so lucra-tive, the church did it again a week later, and pretty soon it became a permanent activity every Wednesday through Saturday. The down-home cooking and good-hearted volunteers make this a wonder-ful scene. It may not be enough to convert you, but I would gladly sit through a three-hour sermon if I knew this kind of homemade barbecue was wait-ing for me at the end. 
TENDER BONESLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 204
Art Blondin’s Chipotle-Marinated Ribs
COOK-OFF COMPETITOR AND BARBECUE-JOINT OWNER ART BLONDIN WAS A  
rib specialist. At Artz Rib House in Austin, he served every size and shape of ribs 
imaginable. After Artz Rib House closed, Art Blondin opened a place in Florence called Art’s Ribs & BBQ. Here’s his favorite recipe for baby back ribs.
T o make the marinade: In a small bowl, stir together the wine, honey, chipotle 
sauce, and canola oil. Season with salt and pepper, mixing well.
Put the ribs into a resealable plastic freezer bag, add the marinade, seal closed, 
and turn the bag as needed to coat the ribs evenly. Or, put the ribs in a flat plastic container, add the marinade, turn the ribs as needed to coat evenly, and seal the container closed. (It is okay to cut the rack in half crosswise so the ribs will fit in  the bag or container.) Marinate the ribs at room temperature for 1 to 2 hours, or in the refrigerator overnight. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep 
up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 200˚ and 225˚F .  
Remove the ribs from the marinade and sprinkle them all over with the rub, 
pressing it into the meat. Allow the ribs to dry. 
Place the ribs, bone-side down, in the smoker as far away from the fire as pos-
sible. Cook for 3 to 3½ hours, or until a toothpick inserted between the bones  goes through easily. Cut the ribs apart between the bones, pile on a platter, and  serve hot.
SERVES 2 OR 3ART’S CHIPOTLE MARINADE
¼ cup red wine¼ cup honey¼ cup Búfalo chipotle sauce or Chipotle 
Ketchup (page 111) ¼ cup canola oil
Salt and ground black pepper
1 rack baby back ribs 
Sweet Pork Rub (facing page)205
Sweet Pork Rub
BROWN SUGAR MAKES A PORK RUB TASTY, BUT IT ALSO REQUIRES VERY LOW  
temperatures to prevent the rub from burning.
In a small bowl, stir together all of the ingredients, mixing well. Store the rub  
in a tightly capped shaker jar or a regular jar. It will keep in a cool cupboard for up  to 2 months.
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP ¼ cup kosher salt
¼ cup chili powder2 tablespoons dark brown sugar2 tablespoons coarsely ground  
black pepper2 tablespoons garlic powder
2 tablespoons onion powder1 tablespoon sweet Hungarian paprika
TENDER BONESLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 206
Rosemary Broasted Big Ribs 
HERE, BROASTING, WHICH COMBINES BRAISING AND ROASTING, IS USED  
to cook a large rack of ribs. You can also use a marinade as the braising liquid to  
tenderize tough 4 and ups before smoking. 
Preheat the oven to 350˚F . 
Trim the rib rack St. Louis style and remove the membrane (see page 197).  
In a roasting pan large enough to accommodate the rack, combine the wine, water, rosemary, and garlic, mixing well. Arrange the rack, bone-side down, over the herbs. Sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper. The top of the ribs should be above the liquid so they steam rather than boil. Cover the pan with foil.
Bake for 3 to 4 hours, or until a toothpick inserted between the bones goes 
through easily. 
Meanwhile, set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood 
chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 225˚ and 275˚F . 
When the ribs are ready, remove the rack from the roasting pan and apply the 
glaze to the meat side with a spoon or brush, if desired. Place the rack, bone-side down, in the smoker as far away from the fire as possible. Cook for about 1 hour,  or until the glaze bubbles. Be careful; it burns easily. 
Remove the rack from the smoker, cut the ribs apart between the bones, pile on a 
platter, and serve hot.
SERVES 3 OR 41 rack 4 and up pork spareribs 
1 cup red wine1 cup water3 large sprigs rosemary5 garlic cloves, crushed
Salt and freshly ground black pepperBourbon Glaze (facing page; optional)207
Bourbon Glaze
THIS IS A FAVORITE RIB GLAZE FROM THE JACK DANIEL’S COOK-OFF.
In a small saucepan, combine all of the ingredients over medium heat and heat, 
stirring occasionally, until the butter melts and the ingredients are thoroughly combined. 
Remove from the heat and use immediately, applying the glaze with a heat- 
resistant basting brush. 
MAKES ABOUT ¾ CUP1 shot bourbon
1 shot cider vinegar½ cup honey1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon butter
TENDER BONESLyndon B. Johnson and Hubert 
Humphrey dig in to the ribs at a victory celebration on the LBJ Ranch in 1964.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 210
Oversize 3-2-1 Ribs
THE NUMBERS REFER TO THE SUGGESTED COOKING TIMES: 3 HOURS OF 
smoking, 2 hours of braising in a foil pan, and 1 hour of glazing. This is a recipe for a 
big rack of ribs that takes forever to cook. Don’t use it for baby backs or 3½ and down spareribs or you will end up with a pile of mushy bones. Use Jalapeño Rib Glaze  (facing page) or another of the Favorite Glazes (page 85).
Trim the rib rack St. Louis style and remove the membrane (see page 197). In a 
roasting pan, rinse both sides of the rack with the vinegar and then allow the rack to soak for 15 minutes. 
Remove the rack from the pan, shaking off the vinegar, and discard the vinegar 
in the pan. Sprinkle the rack on both sides with the rub and press it into the meat. Wrap the rack in plastic wrap and marinate in the refrigerator for several hours.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Start a fire with charcoal  
briquettes and add hardwood lump charcoal or hardwood logs or chunks. Maintain a temperature between 250˚ and 275˚F . 
Place the rack, bone-side down, in the smoker as far away from the fire as possible.   
Cook the ribs, turning them every 15 minutes so they cook evenly, for about 3 hours. The ribs should be well browned.
Remove the rack from the smoker and place it, bone-side down, in an aluminum 
foil pan. Add the Dr Pepper and garlic and cover the pan tightly with aluminum foil. Place the foil pan in the smoker and cook the ribs, undisturbed, for 2 hours. 
After 2 hours, check to see if the ribs are ready by inserting a toothpick between 
the bones. If the toothpick goes through easily, the ribs are ready. If not, re-cover the pan and cook for another 20 minutes, or until the ribs are very tender.
When the ribs are tender, transfer them to the grill meat-side up and apply the 
glaze  with a spoon or brush. Shake a little extra rub over the sticky glaze, then cook  
the rack over low heat (about 225˚F) for about 1 hour, or until the glaze begins to set. The glaze burns easily, so make sure the fire is not too hot. 
Remove the rack from the grill, cut the ribs apart between the bones, fan on a 
platter, and serve hot.
SERVES 3 OR 41 rack 4 and up pork spareribs 
1 cup cider vinegar or cane vinegar3 tablespoons Sweet Pork Rub (page 205), 
plus more for ﬁnishing1 cup Dr Pepper 
3 garlic cloves, crushed Glaze of your choice211
Jalapeño Rib Glaze
IF YOU’RE COOKING A WHOLE LOT OF RIBS, HERE’S A LARGE-BATCH RECIPE 
for a homemade chile glaze that tastes even better than the kind you make from 
jalapeño jelly.
In a nonreactive saucepan, combine the chiles, bell pepper, vinegar, and sugar 
over high heat and bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar. T urn the heat to low and simmer, stirring often, for 20 minutes. Be careful that the mixture does not  boil over.
Remove the pan from the heat and gradually add the pectin while stirring 
constantly. Return the pan to high heat and heat until the mixture returns to a boil. Remove the pan from the heat, pour into a heatproof bowl, and let cool.
Use the glaze immediately, or transfer to one or more airtight containers and 
store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.  
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS4 jalapeño chiles, seeded and chopped
1 cup diced red bell pepper2 cups cane vinegar or cider vinegar4 cups sugar
¾ cup liquid pectin
TENDER BONESLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 212
’Regulars 
After you trim your pork ribs, 
cook the trimmings sepa-rately. First of all, it would be a crime to throw away all that meat, and second, it’s an old East Texas tradition. The breastbone, back ﬂap, and bottom pieces were cooked by themselves and set aside at barbecue joints like Burney’s in Houston’s Third Ward. These odd scraps of cooked meat were known as ’regulars . (The term is prob-
ably a corruption of the word irregulars. ) 
At Burney’s, people would 
come to the back door and the barbecue crew would sell them the burnt ends and crispy trimmings from the ribs, Karen Mayberry, Joe Burney’s daugh-ter, remembers. “They called them the ’regulars. Some people wanted them because they were too poor to buy a whole plate of barbecue, but lots of people liked them just because they tasted so good.” Only people who have been eating barbecue for a long time know to ask for ’regulars.
When you barbecue ribs 
at home, make yourself a special “cook’s treat.” Trim the ribs, season the scraps with rib rub, and smoke the trimmings along with the ribs. The ’regulars will be done much more quickly than the rest of the rack, so you’ll have something to munch on while you’re cooking. East Texas Rib 
Sandwiches
ONLY VERY TENDER EAST TEXAS–STYLE RIBS ARE 
soft enough to make sandwiches. 
Cut the rack into individual ribs. Dip the cut side 
of each bun bottom in the barbecue sauce. Place two or three ribs on each bun bottom and top with onion slices and pickle slices. Dip the cut side of each bun top in the barbecue sauce and close the sandwiches with the tops. 
T o eat a sandwich, just pull the protruding bones 
out from the falling-apart-tender meat.
MAKES 4 OR 5 SANDWICHES1 rack well-cooked East 
Texas ribs
4 or 5 hamburger buns, split1 cup barbecue sauce  
of your choice, heatedOnion slices for topping
Pickle slices for topping213
Boudin-Stuffed Pork Chops
GREGORY CARTER RUNS A BARBECUE TRAILER CALLED BAR-B-QUE DONE 
Right in Houston’s Fifth Ward. Along with brisket, ribs, and sausage, he barbecues 
some tasty mains like these incredible stuffed pork chops. These are a great extra  to throw on the smoker when you are smoking something else.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep 
up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 225˚ and 275˚F . 
Insert a sharp knife into the side of the meaty part of the pork chop all the way 
to the bone, and then carefully cut horizontally in each direction to create a cavity for the stuffing. Squeeze the boudin out of its casing, divide the sausage in half, and stuff half of it into the pocket in each pork chop. Sprinkle both sides of each chop with the rub, pressing it into the meat. Coat the chops lightly with nonstick cooking spray so the meat won’t stick to the grill. 
Place the chops in the smoker directly over the fire and sear briefly on both  
sides to make good-looking grill marks. Move the chops away from the coals and close the lid. Cook the chops for about 2 hours, or until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of a chop away from the stuffing and bone registers 145˚F  for medium. 
Let the chops rest for 10 minutes before serving. 
SERVES 2 TO 42 bone-in, double-thick pork loin chops 
(about 1 pound each)1 link Cajun boudin (about 8 ounces)
½ cup Sweet Pork Rub (page 205)
TENDER BONES10BARBACOA
ANDBORRACHOBEANS
Down in South T exas0Armando Vera and his father cook
barbacoa (cows’ heads) the old-fashioned way: in a brick pit at Vera’s Backyard Bar-B-Que in Brownsville.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 218
oday, a large percent-
age of the state’s top pitmasters are Tejanos, or Mexican- T exans. Y ou’ll find the same brisket, ribs, and sausage in T ejano barbecue joints that you’ll find in the rest of the state, but there is one kind of legend-
ary T exas barbecue that is uniquely  Te ja n o:  b a rb a c o a .  
In Central Mexico, barbacoa is usually lamb or 
goat meat wrapped in maguey leaves and roasted on 
hot coals, but it means something different in T exas. On the cattle ranches along the Mexican border, Mexican ranch hands were given part of their pay in less desirable cuts of beef, such as the head and offal. The Mexican vaqueros adapted the interior Mexi-can style of barbacoa to roast the cows’ heads. They wrapped the heads in maguey leaves or later in alu-minum foil and canvas and buried them in earthen pits lined with hot coals ( pozos  in Spanish). 
Barbacoa is still a popular tradition in T exas, 
but the cooking methods have changed. There are reportedly two or three restaurants in the state that have been granted grandfather status by a county health department for their old barbacoa pits, but  the practice won’t last much longer.
T219
“No, we don’t cook it in the ground 
anymore,” Paula Luna told me one  Sunday morning at (the now-closed) Johnny’s Bar-B-Q Pit in Pharr, down in the Lower Rio Grande Valley. “The health department won’t let us. But I grew up in Los Ebanos, and we still do it that way down there for our family.” Los Ebanos (“ebony trees” in Spanish) is a tiny border town famous for having the last rope-pulled ferry across the Rio Grande. 
For her family in Los Ebanos, Paula 
seasons the cows’ heads, or cabezas,  
with salt and pepper and then wraps them in foil. She puts each wrapped head in an empty ten-gallon metal lard container and puts the lid on it. Paula’s brother buries the cans under a layer of dirt and builds a big fire on top. “You have to pack the earth down good. If you leave any air in there, it won’t get done,” she says. The fire burns through the night, and the cabezas are dug up in  the morning. 
At Johnny’s Bar-B-Q Pit, Johnny 
Harper cooked his cabezas in a pit over a water bath. “You put the heads on a screen above the water and let them steam overnight,” he told me. In the rest of Texas, barbacoa de cabeza  is made in 
a conventional oven with a water bath (called a baño María  in Spanish) under-
neath the head. But in the vast majority of modern Mexican restaurants that list barbacoa on the menu, the meat is actu-ally just braised beef cheeks. I asked Johnny and Paula how to 
make real barbacoa de cabeza at home. “Use an electric roaster oven,” Paula told me. “You know, the kind you cook turkeys in. You put some water in the bottom and cook the head for about twelve hours—it stays real juicy.” 
Cook-off competitor Ernest Ser-
vantes has his own method for re-creating old-fashioned barbacoa. He seasons and smokes the heads for a while, then wraps them in foil and leaves them on the grill over a slow fire overnight. 
If you have a weak stomach, I rec-
ommend you skip the recipes for barba-coa and lengua  that follow. Skim ahead 
to the wonderful recipe for BBQ Pork and Garlicky Guacamole Sandwiches (page 226) and the definitive recipe for slow-cooked Borracho Beans (page 229). If you aren’t easily grossed out and you really want to cook authentic barbacoa de cabeza at home, you’ll find all the gory details on the pages that follow.
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 220
Three Ways to Make Barbacoa
PAULA’S BARBACOA IS LIKE THE KIND YOU GET IN A RESTAURANT—MADE 
without any smoke in a braising liquid. It comes out very moist with extra cooking 
juice to keep it wet. Cook-off competitor Ernest Servantes grew up in Uvalde, and his barbacoa is old school. It’s cooked in a barbecue smoker with mesquite smoke and  no liquid, so you need to have plenty of salsa on hand. My version falls somewhere between the two. 
If you live in T exas, you can usually get a cow’s head at any Fiesta supermarket. 
Get the smallest one you can find. The biggest ones don’t fit in barbecue smokers, conventional ovens, or electric roaster ovens. If you don’t live in T exas, see page 289 for information on ordering cows’ heads.
Rinse the cow’s head carefully inside and out, then cut out the tongue and reserve 
it for making the Lengua (Tongue) on page 224. Sprinkle salt, pepper, garlic powder, and chili powder (or your own favorite spice blend) all over the head. Proceed with one of the following methods.
PAULA’S TURKEY ROASTER OVEN BARBACOA
Put the seasoned cow’s head upside down (forehead down) in an 18-quart electric roaster oven. (If it doesn’t fit, trim the nose with a meat cleaver.) Add 8 cups water, put the onions in the water, and cover the oven. (If the lid won’t fit, make an alumi-num foil tent as described in Robb’s Foil Pan Barbacoa, following.)
T urn the roaster oven to 350˚F and heat for 1 hour, or until the water is boiling 
vigorously. T urn the heat to 250˚F and allow the head to steam overnight (12 hours), or until the cheek meat easily pulls away from the bone.
ROBB’S FOIL PAN BARBACOA
Light a fire in a smoker large enough to hold the cow’s head (a Big Ugly Barrel works great for this). Maintain a temperature between 225˚ and 250˚F , and add oak or pecan wood to create some smoke. Put the seasoned cow’s head forehead up in the smoker and smoke for 1½ to 2 hours, or until slightly browned.1 cow’s head, the smallest available,  
skinned and cleaned
Salt and ground black pepperGarlic powder for sprinklingChili powder for sprinkling2 onions, halvedFresh corn tortillas, lime quarters, chopped 
onion, and fresh cilantro sprigs for serving
Pico de Gallo (page 113) or salsa picante  
of your choice for serving221
Wearing fireproof gloves, remove the cow’s head from the smoker and place it, 
upside down (forehead down), in an oval aluminum-foil roasting pan designed to hold a turkey. (If it doesn’t fit, trim the nose with a meat cleaver.) Add 6 cups water and the onions to the bottom of the pan. Cut two sheets of heavy-duty 18-inch-wide aluminum foil long enough to cover the top of the pan with plenty to spare. Combine the two sheets by overlapping and folding them to make one 32-inch-wide piece of foil, and seal the roasting pan closed with the foil by tucking and folding it around the outside of the pan.
Place the pan in the smoker and cook the head at a temperature between  
225˚ and 250˚F overnight (12 hours), or until the cheek meat easily pulls away from the bone.
Alternatively, put the foil-wrapped pan in a 250˚F oven and cook overnight  
(12 hours), or until the cheek meat easily pulls away from the bone. (The aluminum foil pan will be very heavy and quite flimsy. Slide it onto a cutting board to carry it into the house—and be careful!) 
ERNEST SERVANTES’ MESQUITE-SMOKED BARBACOA
Light a fire in a smoker large enough to hold the cow’s head (a Big Ugly Barrel works great for this) and set up a water pan. Maintain a temperature between 225˚ and 250˚F and add mesquite wood for a South T exas–style smoke flavor. Put the sea-soned cow’s head forehead up in the smoker and smoke for 1½ to 2 hours, or until slightly browned. 
Wearing fireproof gloves, remove the head from the smoker, wrap it in heavy-
duty aluminum foil with the onions, and seal tightly. Return it to the smoker and cook at a temperature between 225˚ and 250˚F overnight (12 hours), or until the cheek meat easily pulls away from the bone.
When the cow’s head is done, pull the cheek meat off, then remove the jaw bones. 
You’ll find another large piece of meat inside. Remove any other nice chunks of meat you can find. 
Cut away any excess fat, blackened meat, and cartilage, but don’t clean the meat 
too thoroughly. The little bits of fat and gelatinized collagen are what give barbacoa its distinctive velvety texture. Chop the meat and put it in a bowl.  You should end up with 
about 2 pounds of meat. Moisten with some cooking liquid if you have any left over.
Serve immediately with tortillas, lime quarters, chopped onion, cilantro,  
and pico de gallo. 
SERVES 6 TO 8
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 222
Gerardo’s Barbacoa de Borrego 
BORREGO  MEANS “LAMB,” BUT AT GERARDO’S DRIVE-IN IN HOUSTON, THE 
kitchen crew uses a mixture of half lamb and half goat and it tastes sensational.  
You can find goat meat at a halal butcher or a Mexican meat market, or, if goat meat isn’t available, just use two smaller lamb legs. If you cannot find one or more of the dried chiles called for here, you can substitute other dried chiles.
Sprinkle the lamb and goat all over with the rub and press the rub into the meat. 
Wrap the meat in plastic wrap and refrigerate for a few hours to marinate. 
Light about 25 charcoal briquettes in a starter chimney and prepare a grill for 
indirect heat. Place the meat directly over the hot fire and brown, turning often,  for 10 to 15 minutes, or until well browned on all sides. Move the meat to the cool side of the grill or to the smoking chamber of an offset barbecue smoker. Put some mesquite wood chips or chunks around the coals and close the lid. Cook the meat  at about 250˚F , turning it every 30 minutes to ensure that it cooks evenly, for  1½ to 2 hours, or until browned.
Meanwhile, make the chile purée: In a saucepan, combine all the chiles with 
water to cover, place over low heat, and bring to a simmer. Remove from the heat and let the chiles sit in the hot water for 10 to 20 minutes, or until soft. Drain the chiles, reserving the soaking water, and transfer the chiles to a blender. Process the chiles, adding the soaking water a little at a time as needed, until a smooth purée forms.One 4- to 5-pound bone-in leg of lamb 
One 3-pound bone-in leg of goat2 tablespoons Louis Charles Henley’s  
All-Purpose Rub (page 141)
CHILE PURÉE
2 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded2 guajillo chiles, stemmed and seeded2 chipotle chiles, stemmed and seeded2 tablespoons olive oil
2 celery stalks, chopped1 onion, chopped4 garlic cloves, mincedOne 14½-ounce can stewed tomatoes2 carrots, peeled and choppedLeaves from 3 fresh rosemary  
sprigs, chopped
Leaves from 3 fresh thyme sprigs,  
chopped
Salt and ground black pepper 2 quarts water, plus more as needed24 small ﬂour tortillas, warmed223
In a soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the celery and onion and 
cook, stirring often, for 5 minutes, or until softened. Add the garlic and cook for a few minutes longer. Add the chile purée and cook for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the tomatoes, carrots, rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper, and water and bring the mixture to a boil. T urn the heat to low and simmer gently while the meat smokes. 
When the meat is browned, add more charcoal and wood to the smoker fire. 
Place a metal roasting pan on the grill directly over the coals, and carefully pour the contents of the soup pot into the pan. Transfer the meat to the roasting pan and  simmer and smoke, adding water to the pan if needed to maintain the liquid level, for 1½ hours. 
Using fireproof gloves or pot holders, remove the pan from the fire and cover 
the roast and the roasting pan with aluminum foil, sealing tightly. Return the pan directly over the fire and simmer for 1 to 2 hours, or until the meat is extremely ten-der. (Or, transfer to a 300˚F oven for the same amount of time.) You want the shape of the roast to be intact, but the meat should be very soft.
Remove the meat from the resulting broth and allow to cool slightly. Reserve the 
broth. Clean the meat away from the bones and chop lightly. Mix the meats in a bowl with some of the chile broth and serve more of the chile broth in a bowl on the side. Or, you can serve some of the broth in small cups as a first course. Accompany the meat with the tortillas and invite guests to make their own tacos.
SERVES 4 TO 6
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 224
Barbacoa de Pozo
The earliest barbecue in 
Texas was the barbacoa de 
pozo of the Tejano ranching 
culture. In The Robertsons, the 
Sutherlands, and the Making of Texas,  author Anne Sutherland 
observes that the Americans who arrived in Texas in 1820 began to imitate the vaquero culture and style of ranching. “They collected herds of long-horn cattle, which they cooked as barbecue (barbacoa)  in deep 
pits as the Mexicans did.”
In his book, Early Tejano 
Ranching,  Andrés Sáenz 
describes a wedding celebra-tion held on his family’s Tejano ranch in 1937. “They slaughtered a large cow, then barbecued the meat in a hole covered with tin and a ﬁre  built over it, to make a pit bar-becue, or barbacoa de pozo.” 
Mexican ranch hands,  
who were given the offal after the slaughter, made cows’ heads the most common form of barbacoa in Texas. But the barbacoa tradition is common on both sides of the border, and the meats cooked in a bar-bacoa de pozo include sheep and lamb as well as other  cuts of beef.Lengua (Tongue)
BARBACOA IS A HASSLE, BUT LENGUA IS JUST AS 
good and it’s really easy, says Paula Luna of Johnny’s 
Bar-B-Q Pit. Just put the tongue in a slow cooker on Saturday night and you’ll have lengua tacos on Sunday morning.
The night before you plan to serve, rinse the 
tongue well, season it with salt and pepper, and put it in a slow cooker with water to cover. Add the garlic and onion to the water. Cook on the high setting for 5 hours, turn the tongue over and add more water if needed to cover, and then turn the heat to low and cook for another 5 hours. The tongue is ready when the skin is hard and the meat is soft. 
Transfer the tongue to a cutting board and 
remove and discard the skin (it should come away easily). Chop the meat finely and put it in a bowl.
Serve immediately with tortillas, lime quarters, 
chopped onion, cilantro, and salsa.
SERVES 3 OR 4 1 beef tongue (about  
2 pounds)
Salt and ground black 
pepper
3 garlic cloves, minced1 onion, halvedFresh corn tortillas, lime 
quarters, chopped  onion, fresh cilantro, and  Barbecued Tomato Salsa  (page 112) or Pico de Gallo  (page 113) for serving225
Bull’s-Eye Pork Tenderloin
THIS COLORFUL BARBECUED PORK TENDERLOIN IS RED ON THE OUTSIDE 
with a bull’s-eye of jalapeño chile and crushed garlic in the middle of every slice.  
If you can’t find Mexican achiote paste, bright-red paprika works fine. Serve the sliced tenderloin on toasted buns with sandwich fixin’s.
In a bowl, stir together the achiote  paste and  orange juice to form a smooth paste. 
Pour into a resealable plastic freezer bag, add the tenderloin, and seal closed. T urn the bag as needed to coat the pork evenly. Put the bag in a container in the refrigera-tor and marinate overnight.
The next day, smash the garlic cloves with the side of a knife blade until they are 
flat and shredded. Cut the stem and tip ends off the chiles to form tubes. Slit each chile lengthwise and, without breaking it in half, gently remove the seeds. Gently stuff the hollow chiles with the crushed garlic.
Remove the tenderloin from the marinade and transfer it to a cutting board.  
Cut off the large ragged end and the small point at the tip to create a uniform cylin-der of meat. Reserve the scraps (they make great sausage). 
Measure the meat alongside the chiles and cut the cylinder into two pieces that 
are each two chile lengths. Using a metal skewer, make a lengthwise tunnel in  the middle of each pork piece, working from one end to the other. Going slowly, as the meat grain will tend to channel the skewer off to one side, continue working straight through the middle. Widen the hole with your finger. Gently insert the stuffed chiles, end to end, into the tunnel, so that they run the length of each piece of meat. Secure the chiles in place by running a toothpick through the meat and into the chile at each end. (If you don’t, the chile will squirt out.)
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  275˚ and 325˚F. 
Place the pork in the smoker and cook for 45 minutes to 1 hour, rotating it as 
needed to expose all sides to the heat. The pork is ready when an instant-read  thermometer inserted into the center registers about 145˚F for medium. 
Allow the roast to rest for 15 minutes. Cut the pork into ¼-inch-thick slices,  
fan them across a serving platter, and serve.
SERVES 4½ cup achiote paste or sweet Hungarian 
paprika
½ cup orange juiceOne 1½-pound pork tenderloin 
10 garlic cloves, peeled4 jalapeño or large serrano chiles
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 226
BBQ Pork and Garlicky 
Guacamole Sandwiches
THE GREAT THING ABOUT COOKING BARBECUE  
without sauce is that the serving possibilities are 
limitless. When I barbecue a pork shoulder (Boston butt), I usually serve pulled pork the first night with barbecue sauce and all the trimmings. But when it comes to the leftovers, I make all sorts of things out of them. Here, for instance, is my favorite leftover smoked-pork sandwich. By crisping the leftover pork in a frying pan, you turn the barbecued pork into something that tastes like Mexican carnitas .
In a skillet, heat the olive oil over high heat. Sea-
son the pork with salt, add to the hot oil, and cook, stirring often, for 5 minutes. Lower the heat a little. 
Slit the bolillos lengthwise, cutting just three-
fourths of the way through, open them up, and put them on top of the pork to heat. Cook the meat, turn-ing it frequently, for 4 to 6 minutes longer, or until crisp. 
Spoon ¼ cup of the guacamole onto each warmed 
roll. Divide the pork evenly among the rolls and top each portion with ½ teaspoon pepper sauce. Serve immediately. 
SERVES 4¼ cup olive oil 
1½ pounds Harley’s Pork 
Shoulder (page 73), chopped
Salt4 bolillos  (small sub-type 
sandwich rolls)1 cup Garlicky Guacamole 
(facing page)
2 teaspoons hot-pepper 
sauceLinguistic Lore
PACHANGA
Pachanga  is a South Texas 
slang term for an outdoor gath-ering that includes barbecue, music, and camaraderie. At election time, politicians hold pachangas to win votes.
To turn your backyard barbe-
cue into a proper pachanga, ice the beers in galvanized tubs, string lights in the trees. Set up a horseshoe pit or a bean-bag throwing area and buy a piñata for the kids.227
Garlicky Guacamole
IF YOU’RE GOING TO USE THIS BATCH OF GUACAMOLE ON BARBECUED PORK 
sandwiches, make it super-garlicky. You may need to buy your avocados in advance 
and leave them on the windowsill until they soften a little. Don’t bother trying  to make guacamole with firm avocados. And don’t buy squishy ones—they’ll be black inside. 
In a bowl, combine the avocados, chiles, onion, garlic, cilantro, and lemon juice 
and mash with a fork until creamy, then season with salt. 
Serve immediately. Guacamole discolors quickly, so it is best not to try to keep  
it too long.
MAKES ABOUT 2½ CUPS3 ripe avocados, halved, pitted, and peeled
3 serrano chiles, seeded and chopped1 onion, ﬁnely diced4 garlic cloves, minced, or more to taste½ cup chopped fresh cilantro
1½ tablespoons fresh lemon juiceSalt 
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 228
Gonzales Food Market 
Macaroni Salad
SLIGHTLY SWEET MACARONI SALAD WITH  
raisins is a favorite at the old Gonzales Food Market 
in Gonzales. 
Bring a large saucepan filled with water to a boil. 
Add the macaroni and cook just until tender, accord-ing to package directions. Drain into a colander, rinse with cold water, and drain again, shaking off any excess water. 
In a large bowl, combine the cooked macaroni, 
onion, celery, carrots, raisins, and mayonnaise  and mix well. Season with salt and pepper. Cover and refrigerate until well chilled before serving. 
SERVES 48 ounces elbow macaroni
½ cup chopped onion½ cup chopped celery2 carrots, peeled and grated¼ cup raisins1 cup mayonnaiseSalt and ground  
black pepper
Adrian Lopez
GONZALES FOOD  
MARKET
Third-generation pitmaster 
Adrian Lopez moonlights as a guitarist in a rock ’n’ roll band.LEGENDS229
Borracho Beans
BORRACHO  MEANS “DRUNK,” AND IT REFERS TO THE BEER IN THE COOKING  
liquid for these popular South T exas beans. If you’re cooking beans and pork roast  
at the same time, you can use the fatty pieces of pork that you remove while carving to add flavor to the beans. Otherwise, use some bacon. 
Pick over the beans and rinse well. Transfer the beans to a pot and add the water, 
beer, garlic, onion, epazote,  chile powder, cumin, pork, tomatoes with their juices, 
and salt. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat and cook for 1 hour. T urn the heat to  the lowest setting and simmer very gently for 3 to 4 hours, or until the beans are soft, but intact. (Keep the level of the liquid a good inch or so above the beans at all times, adding more water as needed.) Alternatively, cook the beans, liquid, and seasonings in a slow cooker on the high setting for 1 hour, then cook on the low setting for  12 hours.
Taste and adjust the seasoning. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the beans to a 
serving dish. Pour the broth into a bowl and serve as a side dish to the beans. 
SERVES 6 TO 82 cups dried pinto beans
4 cups waterOne 12-ounce can beer 1 garlic clove, minced½ onion, ﬁnely chopped3 fresh epazote sprigs 1 tablespoon guajillo chile powder ½ teaspoon ground cumin
1 cup ﬁnely chopped fatty cooked pork 
scraps or uncooked bacon
One 15-ounce can tomatoes, chopped  
and with their juice
1 teaspoon salt
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSCocinero Juan Cesares prepares 
barbecue for the cowboys during a roundup on a South Texas ranch.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 232
Pickled Jalapeños 
THESE “TEXAS PICKLES” ARE EASY TO MAKE. PUT A FEW BIG JARS UP IN THE  
fall when chiles flood the supermarkets, and they should last you quite a while. 
In a large heatproof bowl, combine the chiles, carrots, and onion. 
Pour the vinegar into a saucepan, add the pickling salt, and bring to a boil over 
high heat. Remove from the heat, pour over the vegetables, and stir until all of  the ingredients are well mixed. Place a plate on top of the vegetables to keep them submerged in the hot liquid. Let cool to room temperature.
Transfer the mixture to two 2-quart nonreactive containers with lids and cap 
tightly. Refrigerate for 24 hours before serving. They will keep for up to 1 month.
MAKES ABOUT 4 QUARTS30 jalapeño chiles 
2 carrots, peeled and cut on the diagonal 
into ½-inch slices 
1 small onion, cut through the stem  
end into 8 wedges5 cups distilled white vinegar
1 teaspoon pickling salt233
Jalapeño Potato Salad
FETA, JALAPEÑOS, AND BLACK OLIVES MAKE THIS A VERY FLAVORFUL  
and somewhat elegant potato salad. Serve it on the side with Gerardo’s Barbacoa  
de Borrego (page 222) or any elaborate barbecue spread.
Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover with water, and bring to a boil over 
high heat. T urn the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender. 
While the potatoes are cooking, in a large bowl, whisk together the mustard, 
vinegar, garlic, salt, and pepper. Slowly whisk in the olive oil until emulsified. 
When the potatoes are ready, drain well and add to the dressing in the bowl 
along with the olives, green onions, feta, and jalapeños. Stir and toss gently to  mix well. Serve chilled or at room temperature.
SERVES 64 large potatoes, peeled and cut into 
¾-inch cubes
¼ cup Dijon mustard¼ cup white wine vinegar2 garlic cloves, crushed¼ teaspoon salt¼ teaspoon ground black pepper½ cup olive oil
One 3½-ounce can pitted black  
olives, drained
¼ cup thinly sliced green onions6 ounces feta cheese, crumbled4 jalapeño chiles, seeded and chopped
BARBACOA AND BORRACHO BEANSSMOKING 
BEEF
Clods, Sirloins,  
and BrisketsJohn Lewis seasons a brisket 
at La Barbecue in Austin.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK238
he T exas cattle boom 
got its start in 1867, 
when cowboys took 
their first herds up the 
Chisholm Trail to the 
railheads and north -
ern markets. Steers 
that were rounded up 
for free in South T exas 
sold for forty dollars a 
head at the end of the trail—fortunes were 
made in a matter of months.
Within a few years, millions of longhorns had 
been rounded up and taken to market. After the 
Comanches and the buffalo were killed off, cattle -
men took over the vast grasslands of western T exas. 
Enormous ranches of hundreds of thousands  
of acres were tended by just a handful of cowboys. 
Barbecuing whole steers was already popular at 
civic barbecues before the Civil War. After the war, 
thanks to the emerging T exas cattle industry, the 
market was flooded with beef. In 1873, the best beef 
cuts were selling for four cents a pound at meat 
markets in Austin. The forequarter cuts were what 
people used for barbecue.
The steer’s forequarters were typically cut into 
six- to eight-pound bone-in joints and cooked over 
hot coals in an open pit, but the lean range-fed beef 
required continuous basting for up to twenty-four 
T239
 SMOKING BEEFhours. A cotton mop was used, and the 
basting liquid, generally cooking oil and a little vinegar, was mixed in buckets. 
As meat packing became a national 
industry, cattle raised in T exas were shipped off and fattened on feedlots. T exas meat markets didn’t slaughter their own cattle anymore. Boxed beef, which was introduced in the 1960s, was originally just an easier way to ship a whole steer by railcar. Butchers were obliged to buy the whole animal, which came in seven boxes. In the early 1970s, it first became possible to buy boxes of particular cuts of beef. A book titled The Meat Buyer’s Guide  lists the cuts 
by number. For the first time, barbecue joints weren’t obliged to cook the chuck, shoulder, and other forequarter cuts. Instead, they were free to order the cuts of their choice from packing houses. 
Some old meat markets began to 
barbecue shoulder clods; some cowboy barbecue restaurants in West T exas started to feature sirloins. But what most T exas barbecue joints ordered was  boneless brisket.
Although the entire brisket actually 
includes several bones and some hard fat, the cut that T exas barbecue men  call brisket is officially known as Item  No. 120, “beef brisket, deckle-off, bone- less,” by the Institutional Meat Purchase Specifications and the North American Meat Processors Association (IMPS and NAMP , respectively). Boneless brisket was well suited to the barbecue business. It was relatively cheap, and the flat provided a uniform slice of meat to each customer. (T oday, barbecued 
brisket has become so popular that it isn’t that cheap anymore.)
Although brisket is widely available, 
it is a major challenge for the home barbecuer. Like a pot roast, brisket must be cooked for a long time to become tender. There is just no way to hurry up the process. “There is no medium-rare to this part of the steer. It’s either totally cooked and edible or it’s not,” warns  Jim Goode of Goode Company Barbe-cue in Houston.  
Even when you follow all of the 
recipe instructions to the letter, brisket often comes out dry. That’s why it is considered the true test of barbecue skill in Texas. It’s hard to mess up a pork roast, but it’s easy to ruin a brisket. Before you decide to try it, I suggest you think it through carefully.
First, consider your equipment.  
You couldn’t even fit a brisket on a small Weber, and even if you could, think of the hassle of refueling. T o maintain a 250˚F fire for twelve to fifteen hours, you need to refuel around once an hour. With a barrel or a bigger rig, you’re in much better shape. The farther you can get the brisket from the fire, the easier  it is to cook.
If you have the equipment, the next 
question is, are you going to cook an old-fashioned brisket with the fat cap attached, or are you going to trim the fat and try to cook a new-style brisket with  a thick, crunchy bark?
The follow-up question is, are you 
going to be a pragmatist and wrap the LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 240
brisket in aluminum foil or butcher 
paper after you get a nice color and smoke level, or are you going to be a pur-ist and smoke it all the way? Wrapping a brisket helps ensure a tender finished product. Many famous barbecue joints wrap theirs, so why shouldn’t you?
“Because wrapping a brisket in 
foil ruins the smoke ring and makes the meat mushy. You will never win a barbecue cook-off with foil-wrapped brisket,” says Harley Goerlitz. 
If you do wrap it in foil, are you 
going to keep it on the smoker or finish it in the oven? Some people say there isn’t any difference. Most T exans base this decision on how hot it is outside. When the outdoor temperature exceeds 95˚F (as it often does in T exas for six months of the year), T exans are loath to turn on the oven. There is something perverse (not to mention expensive) about simultaneously heating and cooling your house. So finishing a foil-wrapped brisket on the smoker isn’t always a culinary decision.
There are also some T exans who 
cook a brisket in the oven from start to finish. Benny Wade Clewis, for instance, grew up eating East Texas–style barbecue and wishes he still could. Last time I heard from Clewis, he was incarcerated in the Darrington men’s penitentiary near Rosharon, where he was working in the kitchen. When  he gets a chance to make a brisket these days, he makes it in the oven with  liquid smoke. “The kind you make in the oven ain’t 
as good as the real thing,” Clewis told me when I sampled his cooking at the prison many years ago. “But it’s as close as I’m gonna get.” I asked for his recipe and he sent it to me in a letter.
If you love beef but aren’t ready for 
the level of commitment required by brisket, lots of other alternatives exist. Rick Schmidt at Kreuz Market recom-mends shoulder roasts—a faster cooking and much more forgiving cut of beef.  He also smokes prime rib, which may be the easiest and tastiest version of barbe-cued beef around.
Beef ribs can be even trickier than 
brisket. I’ve included a couple of recipes for the square-cut short ribs that are easy to find at the grocery store. T o cook the big Fred Flintstone–size plate ribs, just substitute the ribs in your favorite recipe for brisket. The seasoning and timing are just about the same.
The brisket recipes here include 
complicated and challenging recipes for purists who want to try to win a trophy, “new school” brisket recipes from the young pitmasters and competitors who are wowing food writers, and some easy recipes—including the easiest recipe  of all, the Benny Wade Clewis recipe that calls for a brisket cooked with liquid smoke in the oven. Pick your level of  difficulty and get after it.
When you can consistently turn  
out a moist and tender barbecued bris-ket, you have passed T exas barbecue’s PhD exam.241
HOW TO SLICE A BRISKET
When your brisket is done, allow it to 
rest at room temperature for 15 minutes or 
so before carving. If it’s wrapped, you will 
want to unwrap it before resting. (A wrapped 
brisket is still cooking, however slowly.) 
Brisket starts getting dried out soon  
after you slice it. Which means that carving  
a brisket in advance and setting the platter  
of sliced meat on the table is a terrible idea. 
Don’t even unwrap the brisket until 15 minutes 
before serving, and don’t start carving until 
everyone is ready to eat. 
Old-school barbecue joints cook the  
brisket with the large fat cap attached. You  
can remove the fat cap before you slice (Fig. 1). 
Or you can slice right through and serve each 
slice with the fat still attached, like Vencil 
Mares does at Taylor Café. Fat-averse diners 
can cut the fat away at the table. 
If you are cooking a new school brisket, 
you definitely want to carve straight through 
the whole brisket and serve each slice with 
some rendered fat and spicy bark attached. 
Brisket has a juicy side (the point) and a 
lean side (the flat). The idea is to slice as  
much meat against the grain as possible. Cut 
the dried-up tip off the end of the flat and  
 
 
 look to see exactly which way the grain is  
running (Fig. 2). Angle your carving knife to 
slice the flat against the grain.
Carve the flat into slices about a quarter of  
an inch thick. Slice the point into heftier slices 
of around a half inch thick. When you get to 
the point, the grain will be running in two dif -
ferent directions. Cut between the two and sep -
arate them. Carve the tapered end of the flat, 
then spin the meat of the juicy point around  
90 degrees and cut across the grain (Fig. 3). 
To keep your brisket slices juicy, serve  
the meat as soon as it’s carved. The best idea 
is to place each slice directly onto someone’s 
plate or on top of a prepared sandwich. Slice 
more as you need it, not before. Gather the 
juices and small scraps of meat left behind 
after you carve the meat and add these  
to the barbecue sauce if you are serving any.
While the old meat markets in Central 
Texas offer barbecue sauce begrudgingly, if at 
all, in other parts of the state, barbecue sauce 
is very popular with brisket. East Texans tend 
to cook their briskets extremely well-done and 
serve the meat swimming in barbecue sauce. 
Leftover brisket makes great breakfast 
tacos. It’s most often chopped up, mixed with 
barbecue sauce, and served on hamburger 
buns with pickles and onions (see page 259).
(Fig. 1)(Fig. 2)
(Fig. 3)
SMOKING BEEF
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 242
John Fullilove
SMITTY’S
John Fullilove was the pitmaster 
at Smitty’s when the barbecue joint took over from Kreuz Market in 1999. “We are going back to Edgar Schmidt’s origi-nal recipes,” Fullilove promised at the time. “The sausage we make now tastes like the sau-sage used to taste ﬁfty years ago.” In 2012, John Fullilove went to Bee Cave to help open Schmidt Family Barbecue.Lockhart Prime Rib
THE BARBECUED PRIME RIB AT SMITTY’S AND 
Kreuz Market is incredibly tender. “I don’t know why 
anybody wants to cook a brisket at home,” said John Fullilove. “If I’m cooking at home, I’m going to get a nice cut like a sirloin or a rib roast and smoke it at  300˚ to 350˚F,” he says. “I’d just season it with salt and pepper. This kind of barbecued beef roast is perfect for Christmas dinner.
Sprinkle the roast all over with the rub, press-
ing it into the meat. Let the roast to come to room temperature.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water 
pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 325˚ and 350˚F (or as hot as your smoker will allow without charring the meat).
Place the roast in the smoker and cook for 2 hours, 
rotating it to expose all sides to the heat. Continue cooking, checking and turning every 30 minutes until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of the roast away from bone registers about 135˚F for medium-rare. This should take 3 to 4 hours total. 
Remove the roast from the smoker and let rest for 
15 minutes. The temperature should rise to 140˚F dur-ing resting. Carve the roast away from the bones and then cut the meat against the grain into 1-inch-thick slices and serve. 
SERVES 6 TO 81½ cups Heath Ray’s Rub 
(page 76) One 3-bone beef rib roast, 
3½ to 4 pounds (USDA 
Prime, Certiﬁed Angus [CAB], or other USDA Choice branded beef preferred) LEGENDS243
Maurice Mikeska’s Tri-Tip 
BRISKET WAS NEVER SERVED AT MAURICE MIKESKA’S LUNCHBOX, HIS TINY 
restaurant on Merchant Street in El Campo. The only cut of beef on Mikeska’s origi-
nal menu was tri-tip roast. Tri-tip, also known as triangle roast, is an economical cut from the bottom sirloin that includes quite a bit of internal marbling, so it stays moist. It’s the favorite cut of California barbecuers. 
Thinly sliced, medium-rare tri-tip tastes great with pickles and onions on  
barbecue sandwiches, T ejano-style on flour tortillas with salsa, or California-style on sourdough garlic bread.
Let the roast come to room temperature. Sprinkle the roast all over with the rub, 
pressing it into the meat. Lay the bacon slices over the top of the roast. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 275˚ and 300˚F . 
Place the roast in the smoker and cook for 15 minutes, then begin rotating it to 
expose all sides to the heat. Reposition the bacon as necessary to keep it on top of the roast. Continue cooking, checking and turning every 15 minutes, until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of the roast registers about 135˚F for medium-rare.  This should take 45 to 60 minutes total.
Remove the roast from the smoker and let rest for 15 minutes. The temperature 
should rise to 140˚F during resting. (The USDA recommends 140˚F .) Cut the meat against the grain into extremely thin slices (a deli slicer works great for this). Serve on a mixed meat plate or on sandwiches.
SERVES 6 1 USDA Choice beef tri-tip roast (about  
2½ pounds; Black Angus or other branded beef preferred)6 tablespoons Louis Charles Henley’s  
All-Purpose Rub (page 141)
3 slices bacon
SMOKING BEEFLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 244
Rick Schmidt’s Shoulder Roast
AT KREUZ MARKET IN LOCKHART, SHOULDER CLOD IS ONE OF THE MOST 
popular  beef cuts. “It’s a nice cut of beef, so you can serve it a little pink, ” says pitmaster 
Rick Schmidt. But a whole untrimmed shoulder clod weighs around twenty pounds— a little large for the average home smoker. And the carving is really tricky, as the grain goes three different ways. “ A shoulder roast is the same cut of meat, and it’s  an easier size for home barbecuing,” Schmidt advises. The only problem is that  without all the fat, the meat tends to dry out. That’s why I’ve added the bacon.
Let the roast come to room temperature. In a small bowl, stir together the salt, 
both black peppers, and cayenne. Sprinkle the roast all over with the seasoning  mixture, pressing it into the meat. Lay the bacon slices over the top of the roast. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  300˚ and 350˚F (or as hot as your smoker will allow without charring the meat).
Place the roast in the smoker and cook for 2 hours, rotating to expose all sides to 
the heat. Reposition the bacon as necessary to keep it on top of the roast. Continue cooking, checking and turning every 15 minutes, until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the center of the roast registers about 140˚F for medium. This should take about 2 hours total . 
Remove the roast from the smoker and let rest for 15 minutes. The temperature 
should rise to 145˚F during resting. Cut the meat against the grain into thin slices and serve.
SERVES 6 TO 81 USDA Choice boneless beef shoulder 
roast (about 3 pounds; USDA Prime,  CAB, or other branded beef preferred)
2 teaspoons salt1 teaspoon ﬁnely ground black pepper
1 teaspoon cracked black pepper¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper3 slices bacon245
BEEF RIBS
Louie Mueller Barbecue in Taylor is 
justly famous for its beef ribs, which are featured on its menu daily. Gonzales Food Market used to serve crispy smoked square-cut short ribs, but discontinued them. Others have tried cooking ribs, but without consistent success. Beef ribs used to be the worst bet on the barbecue menu. Now, they’ve moved into the spotlight.
Justin Fourton at Pecan Lodge serves  
the most-talked-about beef ribs in Texas. They average a pound and a half each and sell for more than twenty-five dollars apiece. “Before, the barbecued beef ribs were always dry and chewy,” says Ronnie Killen, who cooks USDA Prime beef ribs at Killen’s Barbecue in Pearland. “Now, cooked right, they are like the fatty end of the brisket but without all the fat.” 
A well-cooked USDA Prime or Choice 
beef rib can be just as succulent as a perfectly cooked brisket but with a softer, silkier 
texture. In Korean barbecue, sliced and marinated short ribs (known as kalbi  or galbi ) 
are rated alongside rib-eye ( bulgogi ) as the 
best cuts of beef. Top chefs raised the profile of braised beef ribs, and that popularity spilled over into the realm of barbecue. 
The two big problems professional and 
amateur pitmasters have with beef ribs are the serving size and the confusing nomenclature. The term beef ribs  is used to describe cuts from 
several different parts of the animal. Texas pitmasters often refer to the item numbers from the IMPS/NAMP Meat Buyers’ Guide  
to specify which ribs they are talking about. 
The smaller ones are called chuck short 
ribs (No. 130 in The Meat Buyer’s Guide ), 
and they are easily carved into just the right size for a single serving. These are the square-cut ribs found in the supermarket meat case. The giant ones are called plate short ribs (No. 123A in The Meat Buyer’s Guide ). 
SMOKING BEEFPitmaster Wayne Mueller 
clowns around with a rack of beef ribs at Louie Mueller Barbecue in Taylor. 
Photo by Robert LermaLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 246
Ray Lopez’s Beef Ribs
RAY LOPEZ USED TO MAKE THESE BEEF RIBS  
at Gonzales Food Market on special occasions.  
The key to this recipe is to put the ribs in a pan in  the smoker and then to turn them in the melted fat  as they cook to crisp them up. It’s like frying and  smoking them at the same time.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat. Use wood 
chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level  of smoke. Maintain a temperature between 275˚  and 325˚F . 
Sprinkle the ribs all over with the rub, pressing  
it into the meat. Place the ribs in a roasting pan and put the pan in the smoker close to the heat source. Smoke for about 3 hours, turning the ribs often to crisp them on all sides. The ribs are done when they are falling apart.  
Remove the ribs from the smoker and serve hot.
SERVES 4
Ray Lopez
GONZALES FOOD MARKET
Ray Lopez is a pitmaster at  
the Gonzales Food Market, which was opened by the Lopez family near the square  in Gonzales in 1959. It started  as a food store but soon became well known for its coarse-ground sausage and smoked meats, especially the beef ribs.2 to 3 pounds beef short 
ribs (square cut)3 tablespoons Heath Ray’s 
Rub (page 76)LEGENDS247
Smoke-Braised Beef Ribs 
THIS RECIPE STARTS OUT LIKE RAY LOPEZ’S BEEF RIBS ON PAGE 246, BUT  
here a braising liquid is added to the pan. The ribs come out with a smoky  
flavor and a meltingly soft braised texture. Let them get well-done before you  add the hot braising liquid. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. 
Sprinkle the ribs all over with the rub, pressing it into the meat. Place the ribs in a 
roasting pan and put the pan in the smoker over medium-hot coals. Add some wood chunks or chips to the coals. When the ribs start to sizzle, turn them. Continue to cook the ribs in the pan for 1 hour, turning them as needed to caramelize on all sides. Move the pan to the cool side of the grill if the meat begins to burn or stick. 
In a skillet, heat the vegetable oil over medium heat on the stove top. Add the 
onion and cook, stirring often, for about 5 minutes, until softened. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute longer. Add the Dr Pepper and bring to a boil, then lower  the heat to a simmer and add the chiles. When the chiles have softened, about  10 minutes, remove them with a little of the liquid and purée in a blender. Return  the purée to the skillet. 
Add more wood and charcoal to the fire if needed. When the ribs are well 
browned, pour an equal amount of the molasses over each rib and turn each rib to coat evenly. Add the hot Dr Pepper mixture to the roasting pan, then place the  pan directly over the hot coals so the liquid comes to a simmer. 
Cover the grill and allow the ribs to smoke and simmer for 1 hour, turning  
the ribs often. Cover the pan with aluminum foil and let the ribs steam for  30 minutes. 
Remove the pan from the grill and transfer the ribs to a serving dish. Stir the 
braising liquid and molasses in the pan together and pour over the ribs. Serve immediately. 
SERVES 2 TO 46 beef short ribs (square cut)
2 tablespoons Heath Ray’s Rub  
(page 76)
1 tablespoon vegetable oil½ onion, chopped3 garlic cloves, chopped
One 12-ounce bottle cane  
sugar–sweetened Dr Pepper
2 ancho chiles1 cup molasses
SMOKING BEEFLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 248
Jim Goode’s “Plugged” Brisket
THIS RECIPE EMPLOYS A VARIATION ON AN OLD TECHNIQUE CALLED LARDING .  
Larding involves inserting pieces of fat into the lean part of a roast in order to improve 
the tenderness. This used to be done with a tool called a larding needle. Jim Goode, founder of Houston’s Goode Company Barbecue, does the same thing with plugs of fat cut from the underside of the brisket. He seasons them and inserts them into slits cut into the lean meat. 
Besides running one of the top barbecue pits in T exas, Jim Goode is also a former 
chuck-wagon cook-off competitor and an all-around expert on T exas cookery. 
On the lean side of the brisket, you’ll find some pieces of hard fat. Remove some 
of the fat with a knife, cut it into ¼-inch-thick slices, and then cut the slices into twelve square plugs about 1 inch long.
In a bowl, combine the plugs and garlic slivers with 2 tablespoons of the rub  
and the olive oil, and turn with a spatula to mix well. 
Using a paring knife, make twelve 1-inch-deep slits on the lean side of the brisket 
at regular intervals. Widen each hole with your finger and force a fat plug and two garlic slivers into each slit. Force them in deeply or they will pop out. Repeat to use up all the plugs and slivers. Season the brisket all over with the remaining rub,  pressing it into the meat. Wrap the brisket in plastic wrap or place in a resealable plastic freezer bag and refrigerate overnight.
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, 
or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature between  225˚ and 275˚F. 
Place the brisket, fat-side up, in the smoker as far away from the fire as possible. 
Cook, mopping the brisket with the mop sauce every 30 minutes and rotating so it cooks evenly, keeping the fat side up at all times. Add charcoal and/or wood every hour or so to keep the fire burning evenly. The meat is done when an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thick end registers 185˚F , or when a probe goes through with little resistance. This should take 12 to 15 hours. 
Remove the brisket from the smoker and let rest for 15 minutes. (See “How to Slice a Brisket” on page 241 for serving tips.) 
SERVES 10 TO 12Packer’s cut (untrimmed) USDA Select beef 
brisket (8 to 10 pounds)
3 garlic cloves, cut into 24 thin slivers1 cup Jim Goode’s Beef Rub (facing page)1 tablespoon olive oil
6 cups Jim Goode’s Barbecue Mop  
(page 250)249
Jim Goode’s  
Brisket Tips
Timing:  The rule of thumb for 
timing a brisket is 1 hour per  1 pound at 250˚F, but you must add another 15 minutes for every time you open the lid or let the ﬁre go below that temperature. Most cooks ﬁgure 1½ hours per 1 pound to be safe, or 15 hours for a 10-pound brisket.
Yield:  Once you remove  
the fat cap and allow for shrink- age, a brisket yields about  half of the weight you started with, so a 10-pound brisket should yield around 5 pounds of cooked meat.Jim Goode’s Beef Rub
SERIOUS BARBECUERS HAVE THEIR OWN RUB 
recipe. Jim Goode was nice enough to share his, but 
you’ll want to concoct your own.
Combine all of the ingredients in a bowl and mix 
well, then transfer to a shaker jar. The rub will keep at room temperature for up to 3 months. 
MAKES 1 CUP¼ cup salt, or to taste
2½ tablespoons ﬁrmly 
packed dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons paprika2 teaspoons dry mustard2 teaspoons garlic powder2 teaspoons onion powder1½ teaspoons dried basil1 teaspoon ground bay leaf¾ teaspoon ground 
coriander
¾ teaspoon ground savory¾ teaspoon dried thyme¾ teaspoon ground black 
pepper
¾ teaspoon ground white 
pepper
¹⁄
8 teaspoon ground cumin
SMOKING BEEFLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 250
Jim Goode’s Barbecue Mop
THIS MOP IS SO GOOD THAT YOU’LL BE TEMPTED TO EAT IT LIKE SOUP.  
The combination of butter and bacon makes one of the most flavorful moisturizing  
marinades you’ll ever taste.
In a saucepan, bring the stock to a boil over high heat. Add the bay leaves and 
oregano and turn the heat to a gentle simmer. 
In a skillet, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the onion, celery, bell 
pepper, garlic, beef rub, mustard, salt, black pepper, white pepper, and cayenne. Cook, stirring often, for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the onion wilts. Add the warmed stock, lemon zest, lemon juice, soy sauce, vinegar, olive oil, and sesame oil and stir  to mix. 
In a separate skillet, cook the bacon over medium heat, stirring often, for  
3 to 5 minutes, or until the fat has rendered and the bacon is soft. Add the bacon  and drippings to the stock mixture and simmer for about 1 hour, or until reduced  by one-fourth.
Remove from the heat, let cool, and use immediately, or transfer to an airtight 
container and store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.  
MAKES 6 CUPS4 cups beef stock
2 bay leaves1 teaspoon dried oregano2 tablespoons butter¼ cup chopped onion¼ cup chopped celery¼ cup chopped green bell pepper¼ cup minced garlic2 tablespoons Jim Goode’s Beef Rub  
(page 249)
½ teaspoon dry mustard ½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground black pepper½ teaspoon ground white pepper¼ teaspoon cayenne pepperGrated zest and juice of 2 lemons2 tablespoons soy sauce2 tablespoons white wine vinegar1 tablespoon olive oil1 tablespoon Asian sesame oil1 pound thinly sliced bacon,  
ﬁnely chopped Beef comes first, but Texas 
barbecue is equally famous for its variety.BEEF
PORK
MUTION
ELGN
MUTIONLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 252
Edgar Black Jr.  
on Brisket
“When I was a kid, a cattleman 
came over to our house  one day. It was during the Depression. We lived out in the country then. My dad was  out of work at the time and this cattleman wasn’t selling any cattle. So he told my dad that  if we would move to Lockhart and run the empty grocery store there, then this guy would give him some cattle.  So we moved to Lockhart and took over the store. 
“In those days, round 
steaks, porterhouse, and sirloin were all anybody would buy. Nobody ate ground meat, so you always had the fore- quarters left over. Nowadays you make chuck roasts and such out of it, but back then you barbecued it. Bone-in forequarter cuts were the most common barbecue meat in Texas. All the meat markets and grocery stores sold it.  I was still buying cattle at auction and butchering them myself until the 1950s. But Edgar Black Jr.’s  
Overnight Brisket
EDGAR BLACK JR. DOESN’T USE A RUB AND HE 
doesn’t use a mop at Black’s Barbecue in Lockhart. 
“The only seasoning is post oak,” he says. He starts  a big fire in the old brick smoker at 8:00 
P.M. and  
lets it burn down through the night while the brisket  cooks. In the morning, he starts the fire back up  and cooks the brisket another three hours.
Season the brisket all over with salt and pepper 
and let it come to room temperature. 
Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water 
pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature of around 300˚F . 
Place the brisket, fat-side up, in the smoker as far 
away from the fire as possible. T end the fire to main-tain a temperature of around 300˚F for 2 to 3 hours. Then add a good amount of fuel, close the flues down to keep the fire at a slow smolder, and go to bed.
In the morning, restart the fire. Remove the brisket 
from the barbecue so that it doesn’t get covered with ashes when you add the coals. When the fire is going, add wood and begin smoking again for another 2 to  3 hours. The meat is done when an instant-read ther-mometer inserted into the thick end registers 185˚F , or when a probe goes through with little resistance.
Remove the brisket from the smoker and let rest 
for 15 minutes. (See “How to Slice a Brisket” on  page 241 for serving tips.) 
SERVES 10 TO 12Packer’s cut (untrimmed) 
USDA Select beef brisket 
(8 to 10 pounds)Salt and ground black 
pepperLEGENDS253
when they started sending 
cattle up north to be fattened in feedlots, the slaughtering business moved north, too.
“And then you ordered your 
meat from a packing house instead of cutting it up your- self. So there wasn’t any reason to barbecue fore- quarters anymore. I was the ﬁrst one around here to start ordering brisket. In the 1950s, we raised our price. People thought it was pretty out- rageous. We started charging a dollar a pound for barbecue.”Cooper’s Cowboy Brisket
AT COOPER’S IN LLANO, MESQUITE IS BURNED 
down to coals in a separate fireplace and then the hot 
coals are shoveled into a pit. Grills are placed about eighteen inches above the coals, and briskets are cooked over the coals for four hours. They are then wrapped in aluminum foil and held for a few more hours.
The best way to imitate this technique is to grill a 
brisket over mesquite coals in a barrel-type smoker  or a Weber for as long as you can manage to keep  it from burning. Then wrap it in foil and finish it over indirect heat or in the oven. 
Season the brisket all over with salt and pepper and 
let it come to room temperature. 
Light mesquite chunks in a starter chimney. Burn 
the wood down to coals and pour the hot coals into your firebox. Light another batch of mesquite chunks a few minutes later. 
Place the brisket on the grill fat-side up, directly 
over the coals. Cooking the brisket over the coals for  3 to 4 hours is optimal, but just try to grill it for as long as you can without burning it. Then wrap the brisket in heavy-duty aluminum foil and continue cooking on the grill or in a roasting pan in a 250˚F oven. The meat is done when an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thick end registers 185˚F , or when a probe goes through with little resistance. This should take another 3 to 4 hours, though the timing will vary depending on how long you grill the brisket before wrapping it. Remove the brisket from the smoker and let rest for  15 minutes. (See “How to Slice a Brisket” on page 241 for serving tips.) 
SERVES 10 TO 12Packer’s cut (untrimmed) 
USDA Select beef brisket (8 to 10 pounds)Salt and ground black 
pepper
SMOKING BEEFPitmaster Wayne Mueller clowns 
around with a rack of beef ribs at Louie Mueller Barbecue in Taylor. Photo by Robert Lerma
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 254
THE NEW SCHOOL OF BRISKET
The new-school Texas brisket is made with  
premium-grade meat, so it is melt-in-your-mouth tender. It’s fattier than the brisket Texans are used to eating, but the fat on the higher-grade meat renders to a buttery perfection.  The rendered fat is topped with a spicy crust (called a bark) that’s created by rubbing spices into the fat cap before the brisket is cooked  (see Robert Sierra’s Brisket on page 256). 
This new-school brisket has several 
variations in cooking style. Some barbecue-joint pitmasters sprinkle the seasoning directly on the fat cap without wetting it. Some wet  the brisket with pickle juice or slather it with mustard first. And still others use brown mustard instead of the yellow stuff. 
At Franklin Barbecue in Austin, Aaron 
Franklin seasons lightly trimmed Creekstone Farms Natural USDA Prime briskets with nothing but salt and pepper, smokes them for six to eight hours, and wraps them in butcher paper at around 180°F. His crew was spritzing the briskets with diluted Worcestershire sauce 
just before wrapping them the day I watched them cook, but Franklin says they don’t do that anymore. The briskets are ready when they reach 200° to 203°F.
At Killen’s in Pearland, untrimmed 
Creekstone Farms USDA Prime brisket is cooked with salt and pepper as well, but the rub includes three different grinds of black pepper (fine, medium, and half-cracked). 
Justin Fourton at Pecan Lodge in Dallas 
doesn’t think the difference in quality between Certified Angus Beef (CAB) briskets and USDA Prime briskets is worth the steep dif-ference in price. He trims some excess fat from CAB briskets, but recommends leaving about  ¼ inch of fat on top. Then he seasons the briskets with his secret spice mix (I’m guess-ing garlic powder and paprika along with the salt and pepper) and cooks them for fourteen to eighteen hours, until they reach 190°F. Fourton likes his meat springy, not falling apart. 
Justin Fourton, pitmaster at  
Pecan Lodge in Dallas, recommends CAB briskets.COMPARING BRISKET GRADES
At BBQ Summer Camp and Camp Brisket, 
we have conducted multiple blind taste tests to compare five grades of brisket. Graduate students in the Texas A&M Meat Science program cook all five briskets on the same smoker with an identical seasoning of salt and pepper. Here are some notes on the rankings:
USDA Prime:  Tender, juicy, and 
flavorful. This is the most consistent winner in the blind taste tests and your best bet for cooking New School brisket. 
Where to get it: Ask the butcher at your 
neighborhood supermarket to order you a packer’s cut (untrimmed) USDA Prime bris-ket. It may be a few days before it arrives. If the butcher is no help, you can call a restau-rant purveyor and order one for pickup at the warehouse. Be prepared to pay cash. 
The Master Chef Prime Whole Brisket 
from Kansas-based meat supplier Creekstone Farms is popular among cook-off competi-tors and upscale barbecue joints. Expect to pay $100 to $150 plus shipping for one USDA Prime brisket. You can order them online at www.creekstonefarms.com.Certified Angus Beef (CAB):  A little 
denser than Prime, with a wonderful flavor and moist texture. Ranked second or third in taste tests.
Where to get it: CAB is the most popular 
branded beef among restaurants. CAB comes from the top two-thirds of USDA Choice. In upscale supermarkets, you can often find Sterling Silver, another leading brand from the top two tiers of USDA Choice. There are lots of other brands, but beware, as not all branded beef is of equal quality. Some of it is just USDA Select from a particular breed of cattle.
USDA Choice:  Ranked a little lower 
than Prime or CAB, but still a good bet. The second highest USDA grade is made up of three tiers. The top tier is close to USDA Prime and the bottom is close to USDA Select. When you buy steaks, you can look at the marbling and make an educated guess. When you buy brisket, it’s a crapshoot.
Where to get it: Look for USDA Choice 
brisket at restaurant supply stores and whole-sale clubs like Sam’s or Costco.
Wagyu:  The most expensive beef on the 
market scores erratically in blind taste tests. It is so marbled with fat that it tends to fall apart before it reaches the target temperature. 
Where to get it: Wagyu briskets can be 
ordered online.
USDA Select:  Sometimes a USDA 
Select brisket will score surprisingly well in a blind taste test, but it’s usually the lowest ranked grade. This is the brisket served at your average Texas barbecue joint.
Where to get it: USDA Select brisket 
is widely available in grocery stores that sell barbecue cuts.
255
 SMOKING BEEFLearning where a brisket comes  
from at BBQ Summer CampLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 256
Robert Sierra’s Brisket
NOBODY KNOWS BRISKET BETTER THAN COOK-OFF CHAMPION ROBERT SIERRA,  
who has won the brisket category in competitions all over the state. But this is not his secret competition recipe. It is his more casual home recipe for friends and family,  so customize it as you see fit. 
If you like, you can skip the marinade injection step. Pitmasters at busy barbecue 
joints don’t have time for marinades, but cook-off competitors swear by them. The brisket should be cooked from a minimum of 185˚F to a maximum of 205˚F and sliced without removing the fat. It’s served bark, fat, and all—and the best slices come from the fatty end. 
26 hours before serving  
Trim the brisket of any large pieces of hard fat. If necessary, trim the thickest 
part of the fat cap to an even ¼-inch-thick layer. Put the brisket in a roasting pan. 
T o make the marinade: In a small saucepan, combine the flat soda, beef stock, 
salt, garlic, and peppercorns and bring to a boil over high heat. T urn the heat to medium and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the garlic and peppercorns have infused the liquid. Check the seasonings; the liquid should be quite salty. Remove from the heat and let cool. Strain the marinade through a fine strainer to remove all particles.
Inject the marinade into the brisket in eight or ten places, allowing the overflow 
to gather in the bottom of the pan.
In a spray bottle, combine the Worcestershire, water, and well-strained mari-
nade left over after you have injected the brisket. Set the spray bottle aside.Packer’s cut (untrimmed) USDA Prime  
beef brisket (10 to 15 pounds)
MARINADE
½ cup ﬂat Coca-Cola1 cup beef stock½ teaspoon kosher salt3 garlic cloves, smashed10 black peppercorns¼ cup Worcestershire sauce
¼ cup water1 cup yellow prepared mustard,  
or more as needed 
Garlic powder for sprinklingSweet paprika for sprinklingChili powder for sprinklingCayenne pepper for sprinkling (optional)Kosher salt Finely ground black pepperCoarsely ground black pepper257
Spread the mustard over the fat cap of the brisket. Sprinkle the mustard layer  
first with garlic powder, then with paprika, followed by chili powder, cayenne  (if using), salt, and both black peppers, until the mustard is completely covered. Press the spices into the mustard with your palm. If the mustard is still sticky, add more spices. Place the roasting pan with the seasoned brisket in the refrigerator overnight to allow the rub to set. 
14 hours before servingRemove the brisket from the refrigerator and allow it to come to room tempera-
ture. Set up your smoker for indirect heat with a water pan. Use wood chips, chunks, or logs, and keep up a good level of smoke. Maintain a temperature of 225˚ to 275˚F . 
13 hours before serving Remove the brisket from the roasting pan; put the brisket, fat-side up, in the 
smoker; and close the lid. Cook, adding a little fuel every 1 to 1½ hours to maintain  a temperature of around 250˚F , and mist with the Worcestershire spray at each refueling. Wearing fireproof gloves, gently turn the brisket fat-side down after  6 hours, being careful not to knock off the bark. Spritz the bottom of the brisket with the Worcestershire spray until it is shiny. Season the underside of the brisket  with the same sequence of spices but without the mustard. After another 2 hours, test the brisket with an instant-read thermometer. If the internal temperature registers 160˚F or higher, it is time to wrap it.
4 to 5 hours before serving Clean the roasting pan. Wrap the brisket in untreated butcher paper or  
aluminum foil and place in the clean roasting pan on the barbecue smoker at  250˚F or in a 250˚F oven.
1 to 2 hours before serving Timing is the trickiest part. Leave yourself a little wiggle room in case the brisket 
takes longer than expected. If it is done early and your gang isn’t ready to eat yet, lower the temperature and continue to hold the brisket on the barbecue or in the oven—it will be fine for up to 4 hours.
The target temperature is somewhere between 185˚ and 205˚F . Below 185˚F , 
the meat will still be quite firm. It will slice beautifully at 190˚F . But most cook-off competitors consider the sweet spot for tenderness to be 200˚F . If you let it get much past 205˚F , the meat will begin to fall apart when you slice it.
20 minutes before serving Unwrap the brisket and place it on a cutting board. Allow the brisket to rest for 
15 minutes. (See “How to Slice a Brisket” on page 241 for serving tips.) 
SERVES 12 TO 15
SMOKING BEEFLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 258
Darrington Penitentiary  
Barbecued Brisket
THIS ISN’T THE WAY BENNY WADE CLEWIS REALLY LIKES HIS BRISKET, BUT  
at Darrington penitentiary he doesn’t have any choice in the matter. This recipe 
might prove handy should you find yourself confined to prison—or a New York apartment. You can use any mop sauce for the cooking liquid. 
In a Dutch oven, combine the beef stock, vinegar, liquid smoke, bay leaves, 
onion, carrot, celery, bell pepper, salt, garlic, Worcestershire, and black pepper  and stir to mix well. Add the brisket and water to cover. Allow to marinate in  the refrigerator overnight. 
The next day, put the Dutch oven on the stove top over medium heat and bring 
the contents to a boil, turning the brisket so it doesn’t burn. T urn the heat to low and simmer the brisket in the marinade for 1 hour. 
Preheat the oven to 350˚F . Transfer the brisket to a cutting board and cut into slices. Put the slices in the 
Dutch oven with the marinade and transfer the pot to the oven. Cook for 2 hours, or until very tender. Serve hot with a little of the marinade drizzled over the top.
SERVES 104 cups beef stock
½ cup cider vinegar¼ cup liquid smoke2 bay leaves2 cups chopped onion2 cups chopped carrot½ cup chopped celery½ cup chopped green bell pepper¼ cup salt
3 tablespoons minced garlic¼ cup Worcestershire sauce1 teaspoon ground black pepperPacker’s cut (untrimmed) USDA Select  
beef brisket (8 to 10 pounds)259
Robb’s Brisket Disaster Sandwiches
I WANTED TO HAVE A BARBECUE ONE SUNDAY, SO I PUT A BRISKET ON THE 
smoker at 8:00 P.M. on Saturday night and tended the fire carefully until I went to 
bed at around 11:00 P.M. I intended to get up and check the fire throughout the night, 
but I didn’t wake up until 4:00 A.M.  By then, the fire had gone out. The brisket had 
plenty of smoke flavor, and since I was using a recipe that called for wrapping the brisket in aluminum foil with some mop sauce, I figured I’d just put the wrapped brisket in the oven at 225˚F instead of trying to start another fire in the middle  of the night. 
At 5:00 
A.M. , I was awakened by the smoke alarm. That’s how I learned that you 
can’t put a foil-wrapped brisket directly on the oven rack. It punctures the foil and allows the fat to run all over the oven and smoke up the house. 
After I cleaned up the oven, I put the foil-wrapped brisket into a roasting pan 
and put it back in the oven at around 6:00 
A.M. , and I went back to sleep. Everything 
would have worked out fine if I hadn’t left the oven on all day. By the time of the barbecue on Sunday night, the brisket was as mushy as pot roast. It still tasted good, however. 
What do you do with eight pounds of squishy, overcooked brisket? You chop up 
the meat, add a little sauce, and make it into the classic T exas barbecue-joint leftover delicacy, chopped beef sandwiches. 
Chop the brisket well, removing any fat, and transfer to a bowl. Add enough  
barbecue sauce to create a sloppy-joe consistency. 
Place the bottom halves of the buns, cut-side up, on individual plates. Spoon a 
generous helping of the chopped brisket mixture onto each bun bottom. T op with the onion and pickle slices, close the sandwiches with the bun tops, and serve.
SERVES 1Brisket scraps or leftovers
Barbecue sauce of your choice, heated Hamburger buns or kaiser rolls,  
split and toastedOnion slices
Pickle slices
SMOKING BEEF12ON THE  
BARBECUE  TRAIL 
Following the SmokeLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK262
hree men sit on the 
bench in front of 
Dozier’s Grocery on 
FM 359 in rural 
Fulshear. I pause on 
the wood-plank front 
porch for a minute to 
read the handwritten 
notes on the bulletin 
board. A pickup truck 
honks as it passes by. The three men look 
up and wave. Inside, the grocery has a 
small collection of convenience-store items 
up front and a huge meat market in the 
back. This is the way T exas barbecue  
used to be.
As small-town retail districts fade away, some of 
the oldest barbecue joints in T exas have closed their 
doors or moved to greener pastures. Meanwhile, in 
urban T exas strip malls, new barbecue restaurants 
are decorated to look like old country stores. The 
high school kids who work there probably don’t even 
know why.
In these new automated operations, employees 
load meat onto the racks of gas-fired rotisserie ovens,  
push a button, and go home. The virtual barbecue 
oven does the rest. The quality of the smoked meat 
pales in comparison to the taste of meat cooked the 
old-fashioned way, with nothing but smoke. 
T263
 ON THE BARBECUE TRAILThe Business of Barbecue
Whenever I see an unlicensed shade-tree barbe-
cue stand along the side of a Texas farm-to-market road, I think of history’s ﬁrst barbecue salesmen—those famous outlaws, the buccaneers. 
In the French West Indies, the word for a barbe-
cue grill is boucan  (from Tupi, a Brazilian language). 
Boucanée  means “smoked meat.” Hence, the  
word buccaneer  is derived from the French word 
for barbecuer. The buccaneers were a ragtag crew consisting mainly of French and English outlaws and escaped slaves. They hid from the Spanish on the island of Tortuga off the northern coast of Hispaniola in the mid-1600s. Although they would later be known for their seafaring exploits, their original business was smoke-cured meat. 
The buccaneers hunted the wild cows and pigs 
left behind by failed Spanish settlements on Hispaniola. They smoke-cured the meat and sold  it to passing ships. But because the Spanish were hunting the buccaneers, the latter banded together for their own protection. Eventually they gave  up on the meat business and went to sea. Soon they discovered that capturing Spanish vessels  by surprise attack was a lot more lucrative than chasing wild pigs. Before long, the buccaneers came to be known more as fearless seamen than as barbecue purveyors. But many would argue  that it was in their ﬁrst occupation that they made their most signiﬁcant contribution to humanity.
Like the buccaneers, the owners of Texas barbe-
cue joints are forever at odds with the authorities. Barbecue is, by deﬁnition, a primitive cooking  process. The health laws in many Texas counties do not allow restaurants to cook outdoors. Folks who have barbecue joints often build tin roofs, screened porches, and other elaborate facades to bring the outdoor cooking indoors (at least technically). In outlaw tradition, the best barbecue generally comes from the joint that is in the most trouble with the health department.These high-tech barbecue ovens 
do fill a need, however. They make barbecue convenient and consistent. They also solve the building-code and air-pollution problems that make old- fashioned barbecue pits difficult to build in big cities . . . and they are slowly  but surely replacing the real thing. 
Writer Marshall McLuhan 
observed, “Because we are benumbed by any new technology—we tend to make the old environment more visible; we do so by turning it into an art form and by attaching ourselves to the objects and atmosphere that character-ized it.” 
Old-fashioned T exas barbecue has 
become an art form. As each old bar-becue joint disappears, the ones that remain become more treasured. Here are some barbecue joints that are worth a visit. Most of them are old places.  A few are new places that are reviving the old-fashioned ways. When you’re driving around, don’t forget to keep your eyes open. You never know when you might happen upon a shade-tree barbecue stand or a little shack that nobody’s ever heard of—with the best smoked meat in creation.BSAR-B-Q266
 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOKThe Barbecue Belt
THE TOWNS OF LOCKHART, TAYLOR, AND ELGIN ARE MAJOR STOPS ON ANY 
tour of the Central T exas barbecue belt. All three towns are located on rail lines in 
cotton-farming country. The shopping districts of these towns are nearly empty today; buildings stand unoccupied, and pedestrians are rare, but in their heyday, these were bustling cotton-shipping centers. On a Saturday night during the harvest season fifty years ago, their streets were packed with merchants, farmers, and  cotton pickers out for a night on the town.
Lockhart
During the spring 1999 
session of the T exas Legis-lature, the House of Rep-resentatives approved a resolution naming Lockhart the Barbecue Capital of T exas. Lockhart barbecue joints draw customers from hundreds of miles around. The style is widely imitated and Lockhart-style barbe-cue joints with some family connection to the originals can now be found in Dallas (Lockhart Smokehouse), Austin (Schmidt Family Barbecue), and Manhattan (Hill Country Barbecue). While they may serve the same sausage, none of the satellite locations can match the charm of Lockhart.
Black’s Barbecue
215 N MAIN STREET
512-398-2712 
Established by Edgar Black Sr. in 
1932, during the Great Depres-sion, this landmark’s ﬁrst barbe-cue pits were located in a tin  shed behind the combination 
meat market and grocery store across from the current restau-rant location. You can eat  “1932 style” on butcher paper,  or you can work your way through a cafeteria-style serving line  that includes various salads and side dishes. 
Chisholm Trail Bar-B-Q
1323 S COLORADO STREET
512-398-6027
In 1978, Floyd Wilhelm sold his 
ﬁshing boat to raise the money to open this place. “Sometimes, I look back and think I must have been crazy,” he says. “Starting a barbecue place here was like opening a ballpark across the street from Yankee Stadium.” Nevertheless, Chisholm Trail draws a crowd of regulars every day at lunchtime.
Kreuz Market  
(pronounced “Krites”) 
619 N COLORADO STREET 
512-398-2361
For many years, Kreuz was called 
the best barbecue joint in the state by magazines, newspapers, and barbecue writers. The 
smoked meats are still the ﬁnest you may ever taste, but since its move in 1999 to a new location,  it has lost some of the tradition that made the experience so impressive. The new location is not a meat market, but it continues in the meat-market tradition.  The beef, sausage, and pork are served on brown butcher paper without barbecue sauce. In a bow to modern times, however, pork ribs and several side dishes are now offered.
Smitty’s Market 
208 S COMMERCE STREET
512-398-9344
This is the original location of 
Kreuz Market, and the smokers here are more than a hundred years old. Stop by early for some of the best sausage rings in the state. The pork loin is also excel-lent. Take a tour of the old dining halls, where the knives are still chained to the tables. In the days of the cotton pickers, this not only prevented the disappearance of the knives but also cut down  on knife ﬁghts. 267
Taylor
As the home of one of  
the state’s most pleasant competitions, the Taylor International Barbecue Cook-Off, Taylor is a barbecue capital in its own right. T wo of the state’s most historic barbecue joints  lie within a couple of blocks  of each other in the city’s downtown shopping district. The old center of Taylor has been used as a film set and looks like a time capsule from the 1950s. 
Louie Mueller Barbecue
206 W 2ND STREET
512-352-6206
Louie Mueller Barbeque was 
established in the mid-1940s in a small tin shed in the alley behind Louie Mueller’s Complete Food 
Store. A few years later, Louie opened his second location in south Taylor to accommodate  the cotton pickers and farmers who came to town looking for something to eat when they got off work. He moved to the pres-ent location in 1959.
Mueller’s is consistently 
rated one of the top barbecue restaurants in the state. The brisket is excellent, and so are the pork ribs. If you want to try the famous beef ribs, come early. Louie Mueller’s has side dishes and sauces, as well. 
Taylor Cafe
101 N MAIN STREET
512-352-2828 
The Taylor Cafe is a tiny beer 
joint with two bars—a leftover from the days of segregation. It sits on an all but abandoned 
block of Main Street that is now shadowed by a highway over-pass. In the 1950s, Taylor Cafe was a rough-and-tumble honky-tonk that catered to itinerant agricultural workers and cotton pickers. There was a ﬁght almost every night, remembers owner Vencil Mares. The cotton pickers are gone now and there aren’t so many ﬁghts anymore, but otherwise the Taylor Cafe hasn’t changed an iota in ﬁfty years. It is a place where grizzled farm-ers and oil-ﬁeld hands bring their grandchildren to see what barbe-cue joints used to look like.
ON THE BARBECUE TRAIL
In 1999, Kreuz Market moved from 
the downtown location (now  Smitty’s Market) to this impressive new location down the road.268 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK
Elgin
Named the Sausage Capital 
of T exas by the 1995 T exas Legislature, this little  farm town is serious about sausage. Elgin sausage orig- inated at Southside Market, whose original location in downtown Elgin opened  in 1882. 
Southside Market  
owner Ernest Bracewell  Sr., a former Armour meat salesman, bought the busi- ness in 1968. Because U.S. law makes it difficult for  a company to trademark a name that includes a geo- graphic, Southside Market was unable to protect the 
name Elgin sausage. As  a result, dozens of different companies have sprung up over the years in Elgin, each selling its own version of Elgin sausage.
Southside Market is  
still the leading producer, with an output of around  a million pounds a year.  Its logo shows the state of T exas outlined in sausage.  If you stretched out a million pounds of sausage,  it would actually be enough to accomplish this feat,  I’m told. 
In the summer, when 
barbecue season is in full swing, Bryan Bracewell,  a grandson of the owner and 
chief of sausage production, guesses that all together  the sausage makers in the town of Elgin turn out around a hundred thousand pounds of sausage a week. “That would be a conserva-tive estimate,” says Bryan. 
Meyer’s Elgin  
Smokehouse 
188 HIGHWAY 290
512-281-3331
Meyer’s Elgin Sausage is a famil-
iar name to Central Texas barbe-cue fans. The sausage has been available in area grocery stores for many years. While Southside’s Elgin hot sausage is all beef, Meyer’s Elgin sausage comes in 
White business cards hung on  
the wall at Louie Mueller Barbecue slowly turn deeper and deeper shades of brown.269
several different varieties. The 
restaurant serves the all-beef 
and garlic pork flavors, as well as 
brisket, turkey, and other smoked 
meats. You can also have Meyer’s 
Elgin sausage shipped to your 
door (see Online and Mail-Order 
Sources on page 288).
Old Coupland Inn
101 HOXIE STREET, COUPLAND 
512-856-2777
This is a fascinating, if erratic, 
barbecue joint halfway between 
Taylor and Elgin, in the farmland 
east of Austin, so I have tucked 
it in under the Elgin listing. Coup -
land Tavern was founded in 1910 
and featured a one-hundred-year-
old back bar from the Palace 
Saloon in Schulenburg. Renamed the Old Coupland Inn, it became 
a popular local restaurant in the 
1970s and 1980s. In 1992, the 
building was reopened as a barbe -
cue restaurant and dance hall. It 
was then sold several times, but 
after a string of failures, it is now 
under operation by the folks who 
revived it in 1992. Go for the bar -
becue, stay for the dance.
Southside Market  
& BBQ
1212 HIGHWAY 290 E
512-281-4650
Founded by an itinerant butcher 
who sold meat door to door, 
Southside Market is the birth -
place of the legendary “Elgin hot 
guts,” a fiery hot all-beef sausage 
with natural casing.  After more than a century  
in the old butcher shop at  
109 Central Street in Elgin, the 
owners were unable to get fire 
insurance on the building. The 
Bracewell family moved the busi -
ness out to a building on Highway 
290 in 1996. The new location 
combines a barbecue restaurant 
with one of the largest sausage-
making operations in the state. 
Southside sells its Elgin sausage 
both cooked and uncooked at  
its meat market and also from 
its website (see Online and Mail-
Order Sources on page 288).
ON THE BARBECUE TRAILRick Schmidt at Kreuz Market.270 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK
Franklin Barbecue
900 E 11TH STREET, AUSTIN 
512-653-1187
Celebrity pitmaster Aaron 
Franklin started selling his succulent brisket from a trailer  on the I-35 access road in 2009. Franklin Barbecue is now located on historic East 11th Street in  the former home of Ben’s Long Branch BBQ. The line that forms in front of the door in advance  of Franklin’s 11:00 
A.M. opening 
guarantees a sellout every day  of the week. The Tipsy Texan,  a chopped brisket and purple coleslaw sandwich, is a favorite. Andrew Knowlton at Bon Appétit  
declared Franklin Barbecue the best barbecue joint in the country.Killen’s Barbecue
3613 E BROADWAY STREET,  
PEARLAND281-485-2272 
Killen’s is a smart-looking barbe- 
cue joint in a refurbished school building. The lines are long  on Saturday but not too bad on weekdays—sellout is usually around 3:00 
P.M. Ronnie Killen 
smokes USDA Prime briskets with a rub that contains three different grinds of black pepper—coarse, medium, and ﬁne. The result is black, crunchy bark attached to buttery rendered  fat. Along with the world-class brisket, get the beef ribs and house-made sausage and don’t miss the made-from-scratch creamed corn, smoked beans, and crunchy coleslaw. Desserts include bread pudding, butter-milk and pecan pies, and  peach cobbler.
CorkScrew BBQ
24930 BUDDE ROAD, SPRING 
832-592-1184
CorkScrew BBQ is a trailer in a 
vacant lot beside a Woodlands area shopping center. The moist and tender USDA Prime brisket kept selling out early every day, to the chagrin of those stand-ing in line. After turning away too many customers, owners Will  and Nichole Buckman swapped out their 600-pound-capacity Cadillac steel smoker for an 1800-pound capacity J.R.  Oyler 
rotisserie that should make a lot more people happy. Try the exceptional mac ’n’ cheese, smoked tallow beans, and the Pancho and Lefty sandwich  (an homage to the Willie Nelson and Merle Haggard album Pancho 
& Lefty ). The sandwich features 
fresh-sliced brisket on a bun with the unlikely but delicious combo of pico de gallo  and mayonnaise.Six Wait-in-Line Joints
YOU USED TO HAVE TO WAIT IN LINE IF YOU WANTED BARBECUE THAT WAS  
hot off the smoker. And when the fresh-cooked meat was all gone, the pitmaster put  
the Sold Out sign on the door and went fishing. That’s the way it was a hundred years  ago, and that’s the way it is today at a handful of the state’s most talked-about new barbecue joints. 
The prices are higher because they are cooking USDA Prime briskets. The meat 
is sliced to include buttery rendered fat and a crusty bark. The sides are heritage home-cooked cuisine, rather than the usual mass-produced potato salad and slaw from a plastic bucket. 
So, is this kind of barbecue worth standing in line for? That’s the subject of a 
heated debate these days—and a question you will have to decide for yourself.
271
La Barbecue  
The Good Life Food Park
90 E CESAR CHAVEZ, AUSTIN
512-605-9696
Former Franklin Barbecue 
employee John Lewis runs the trailer ofﬁcially known as La Barbecue Cuisine Texicana in an East Austin food park. The crowd lines up for brisket and pulled pork, both of which you can get  in El Sancho Loco, a sandwich  of pulled pork, chopped brisket, sausage, and pickled red onions. On Saturday and Sunday there’s live music in the picnic grove.  If it’s too hot to sit around  outside, get a seven-pound vacuum-sealed cooked whole brisket to go.Pecan Lodge 
2702 MAIN STREET, DALLAS
214-748-8900
Pitmaster Justin Fourton keeps 
the steel pits smoking and loaded with brisket, beef ribs, pork  butts, and house-made sausage twenty-four hours a day at this urban hipster barbecue joint in Deep Ellum. Diane “Boss Lady” Fourton rounds out the menu with old-school Southern fried chicken, mac ’n’ cheese, collard greens, and Aunt Polly’s banana pudding. The bar features micro- brewery beers on draft. The line  winds around the dining room and  
out the front door, but it’s worth  the wait. Bring a gang and go for The Trough, a sampler platter  of every meat in the house.Snow’s BBQ
516 MAIN STREET, LEXINGTON
979-773-4640 
Snow’s in Lexington is about an 
hour east of Austin and an hour west of College Station. It’s only open one day a week, on Satur-day, and you need to be there very early in the morning if you hope to get any of the famous brisket and juicy pork, all of which is cooked cowboy-style over burned-down oak coals. Once a little-known secret, the place has been swamped with barbecue fanatics every Saturday since being ranked the number-one  barbecue joint in the state by Texas Monthly  magazine in 2008.
ON THE BARBECUE TRAILRain or shine, there’s always a line  
at Franklin Barbecue in Austin272 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOKTen Old Meat Markets  
and Grocery Stores 
IF YOU’RE GOING TO TAKE A TREK OUT TO THE OLD MEAT MARKETS,  
remember that people eat lunch early in farm country. Consider skipping breakfast 
and showing up at 11:00 a.m. to get first choice of the day’s best cuts. By 12:30 P.M., any 
small-town barbecue joint worth its salt has sold out of its most popular items,  and these places aren’t open for dinner. 
Austin’s BBQ & Catering 
507 E MAIN STREET, EAGLE LAKE
979-234-5250
The former ﬁlling station has no 
charm; it’s just the barbecue  outlet for the old Austin’s Grocery Store next door, which was established in 1950. The house sausage is outstanding—you can buy some next door to cook at home—and the brisket is usually pretty good, too. Get a couple of pounds to go and skip the tomato-heavy barbecue sauce.
City Market (Luling)
633 E DAVIS STREET,  
NEAR HIGHWAY 183, LULING830-875-9019
“We don’t have any forks,” the 
cashier at City Market repeats emphatically every ﬁve minutes. Visitors who aren’t familiar with Central Texas barbecue tradi-tions are dumbfounded by the lack of eating utensils. Why do we eat barbecue with our hands? Because that’s the way cotton pickers did it, that’s the way the oil-ﬁeld workers did it, and  that’s the way it’s done. Open since 1930, Luling’s City 
Market is an old meat market that hasn’t changed much since the Depression. Try the juicy brisket and the sausage; two kinds are available, wet and dry. The wet one squirts when you cut it. 
City Market (Shulenburg)
109 KESSLER AVENUE (HIGHWAY 77),  
3 MILES NORTH OF SHULENBURG979-743-3440
The “best little meat market in 
Texas” makes some outrageous jalapeño sausage. Quite a bit  of it goes to the Salt Lick Steak House restaurant chain, but you can buy some too, if you get  here early. The smoked pork loin is very popular around Christmas-time. You slice it up and eat it cold. Don’t forget to buy some dry sausage to eat in the car.
City Meat Market 
(Giddings) 
101 W AUSTIN STREET, GIDDINGS
979-542-2740 
There’s always some brisket and 
sausage for lunch at City Meat Market in Giddings, but get there early because owner and pitmaster 
Gerald Birkelbach doesn’t cook all day. This is another meat market that sidelines in barbecue. They do  custom butchering too, in case you want a special cut. It’s a great place to get your deer processed. 
Dozier’s Grocery  
and Market
8222 FM 359, FULSHEAR
281-346-1411
Established in 1957, Dozier’s is 
the closest meat-market barbe-cue joint to downtown Houston. (It’s twenty-eight miles from 610 West to Fulshear.) George H. W. Bush used to ﬂy Dozier’s pecan-smoked bacon to Washington on Air Force One. 
Gonzales Food Market
311 ST. LAWRENCE STREET, GONZALES
830-672-3156
The Lopez family has been sell-
ing barbecue out of their grocery store in downtown Gonzales since 1959. The brisket is melt-in-your-mouth tender and the Tex-Mex sides are excellent.
273Novosad’s BBQ  
and Sausage Market 
105 S LA GRANGE STREET, 
HALLETTSVILLE 361-798-2770
Unusual cuts like lamb ribs and 
pork steaks are popular here. Try the house-made beans, coleslaw, cucumber salad, fresh-baked bread, and other pleasant (though nontraditional) twists on the old meat-market menu.
Prause Meat Market
253 W TRAVIS STREET  
(HIGHWAY 71), LA GRANGE979-968-3259
Prause’s may not have the best 
smoked meat in the state, but  it’s a great place to see how  the Texas barbecue joint evolved. The same family has run the market for more than a hundred years, and it’s been in its present location since 1952. It’s still 
more of a meat market than a barbecue joint—like a butcher shop with a lunch room.
Smolik’s Smokehouse
501 E SAN PATRICIO AVE, MATHIS
361-547-5494
Gail Smolik and her husband 
Mike opened this smokehouse in 1989. It is one of two remaining outposts of a famous smoke-house chain founded by a family of Czech sausage makers. The original Smolik’s Market Bar-B-Q was opened in Karnes City by  William Haris Smolik in 1928.  The other remaining location, Smolik’s Meats & BBQ in Cuero, was founded by the late William Benedict “Bill” Smolik and is now run by Bill’s son David and daugh-ter-in-law Camille (see page 104). The Smolik family’s fabulous beef and pork sausage is packed in 
natural casings and smoked. The recipe includes lots of garlic and black pepper. When you order, skip the brisket and get some extra sausage.
Virgie’s Bar-B-Que
5535 N GESSNER DRIVE, HOUSTON 
713-466-6525
Adrian Handsborough turned his 
family’s old convenience store  in the Carverdale neighborhood west of Houston, Virgie’s Place, into Virgie’s Bar-B-Que (Virgie is Handsborough’s mother’s name). The oak-smoked East Texas brisket and tender spareribs are excellent. The iced tea is sweet and so is the barbecue sauce. 
ON THE BARBECUE TRAIL
Richard Lopez is the third- 
generation proprietor of Gonzales Food Market in Gonzales.274
 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOKTen in the City
HATS OFF TO DANIEL VAUGHN AND HIS PROPHETS OF SMOKED MEAT   
guidebook to T exas barbecue joints. Daniel, who is now the barbecue editor of  
Texas Monthly , has visited more barbecue joints than anyone I know. His negative 
reviews have saved us all a lot of wasted time, and his positive reviews have made  us aware of lots of barbecue joints we would have missed.
My list of barbecue joints is far more complete thanks to Daniel, even if I don’t 
put much stock in ratings, rankings, or stars. I am also a little more sentimental  than he is. I tend to forgive average barbecue in charming barbecue joints with  lots of history. 
The biggest problem that Daniel and I both face is that our lists go out of date  
as soon as they are published. Barbecue joints open and close, ownership changes, and new generations take over the pits. 
So here are a few big city places I like—assuming the doors are still open.
Angelo’s Bar-B-Que
2533 WHITE SETTLEMENT ROAD,  
FORT WORTH817-332-0357
The stuffed black bear that 
greets you at the door sets the tone. Decorated with moose heads and ﬁshing trophies, Angelo’s looks like a big, dark hunting lodge. Angelo’s brisket is among the best in the state. It is smoky, perfectly seasoned, and so tender you could cut it with a pickle spear. But it’s Angelo’s cold draft beer that people in Fort Worth talk about. The beer schoo-ners at Angelo’s are made of thick glass and are kept in a huge freezer. When the beer is ﬁrst poured into one of the glasses,  it freezes along the sides. Brooks’ Place
18020 FM 529,  
CYPRESS832-893-1682
There is a picnic table chained to 
a trailer in the parking lot in front of Ace Hardware in suburban Cypress, northwest of Houston. That’s the extent of the dining room at Brooks’ Place, where pitmaster Trent Brooks turns out some of the most remarkable  barbecue in East Texas. Brooks is a second-generation barbecue man; he learned from his dad, who runs a barbecue catering operation in Acres Homes. His lightly trimmed brisket has a deep smoky ﬂavor and a crusty bark. There are also ribs, links, pulled pork, and phenomenal home-made garlic potatoes. Gatlin’s BBQ
3510 ELLA BOULEVARD,  
HOUSTON 713-869-4227
The brisket is consistent, the 
spareribs are some of the best in the state, and the pulled pork with vinegar barbecue sauce  is pushing the envelope of Texas barbecue tradition. So are the dirty rice and Creole-inﬂected sides and desserts. Pitmaster Greg Gatlin played defensive back for the Rice Owls football team. After graduating with degrees in economics and sports manage-ment, he got a corporate job.  But the self-taught pitmaster left it all behind because he wanted to barbecue for a living. He and his mom and dad opened the original Gatlin’s BBQ location in 2010. 
275
Goode Company Barbeque
5109 KIRBY DRIVE, HOUSTON
713-522-2530
Jim Goode was a chuck-wagon 
cook-off competitor and barbe-cue buff who decided to go into business. His original restaurant  on Kirby is one of the best of the  new breed of Texas barbecue joints. The brisket, pork roast,  and ribs are excellent. There  are two choices of sausage:  jalapeño and Czech.
Jackson Street BBQ
209 JACKSON STREET, HOUSTON 
713-224-2400
Located next to Minute Maid Park, 
home of the Houston Astros, Jackson Street BBQ is the favored barbecue joint for downtown ofﬁce workers and baseball fans. The co-owners both come fom Louisiana families. Greg Gatlin (see page 144) is the pitmaster, and as you might expect, his brisket and ribs are ﬁrst-rate. Culinary Institute of America grad Bryan Caswell came up with the sides and the spectacular cheddar jalepeño biscuit—try a brisket burnt ends sandwich on this biscuit. Meats by the pound include smoked chicken, turkey, and two kinds of sausage as well as some excellent pulled pork. Smoked deviled eggs, dirty rice, collard greens, and meaty beans round out the side dish menu.
Patillo’s Bar-B-Q
2775 WASHINGTON BOULEVARD, 
BEAUMONT409-833-3156This century-old Beaumont bar-
becue business is run by Frank Patillo IV. Over the years, the restaurant has been located at various Beaumont addresses. The giant pit was installed at the Washington Boulevard site in the 1950s. Look for the neon chicken sign. Patillo’s serves the best ver-sion of the disappearing African-American–East Texas specialty called “juicy links” that you are likely to ﬁnd. Properly served with white bread, a juicy link should ooze spicy ground beef and orange-colored melted beef fat when you cut it open. To eat it, you dab it up with the bread. 
Pizzitola’s Bar-B-Cue
1703 SHEPHERD DRIVE, HOUSTON 
713-227-2283
When Jerry Pizzitola heard that 
one of his favorite barbecue joints, the old Shepherd Drive Bar-B-Q, was slated to close, he took it over and reopened it as Piz-zitola’s. Through an arrangement with John and Leila Davis, family members of the original owners, he was able to grandfather the brick pits that produce some of the best pork ribs in the state. Piz-zitola’s may be the only barbecue joint serving 2½ and down spare-ribs every day of the week. 
Railhead Smokehouse
2900 MONTGOMERY STREET,  
FORT WORTH817-738-9808
Railhead will be the ﬁrst to admit 
that they learned everything  they know from Angelo’s. Like Angelo’s, the Railhead has excel-
lent brisket and tender ribs, but the population of Fort Worth seems to be divided on the subject of which establishment has colder beer. Traditionalists favor the dark interior of Angelo’s, while the younger set gravitates toward the picnic tables outside at the Railhead. The next time you ﬁnd yourself in Fort Worth, I suggest you try them both. 
Sam’s BBQ
2000 E 12TH STREET, AUSTIN
512-478-0378
This old wooden house still 
has a rusty screen door and an outhouse behind the woodpile. Sam’s was a favorite of the late Stevie Ray Vaughan and many other blues musicians. It is still very popular with the out-all-night crowd—it’s open very late. Try the ribs and the sausage. This  may be the only place you’ll ever  ﬁnd barbecued mutton (see the  recipe on page 140).
Stubb’s Bar-B-Q 
801 RED RIVER STREET, AUSTIN
512-430-8341
The late C. B. Stubbleﬁeld was a 
legend in Lubbock. He not only fed up-and-coming musicians like Terry Allen and Joe Ely, but he also showed up at their sets and jammed with them. Stubb’s Bar-B-Q in Austin is a music venue, bar, and restaurant. The ribs and chicken here are amazing, but the brisket is hit or miss. The Sun-day Barbecue and Gospel Music Brunch is absolutely fabulous. 
ON THE BARBECUE TRAIL276
 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK
And Ten for the Road
LIKE MOST TEXAS FOOD LOVERS, I PLAN MY CAR TRIPS AROUND THE  
opening and closing times of interesting barbecue spots. These are a few of my favorite  
“road trip” stopovers.
Clark’s Outpost
101 HIGHWAY 377, TIOGA
940-437-2414
People used to drive for hours  
to eat the famous barbecue at Clark’s Outpost in the tiny town of Tioga, north of Denton. The place is not what it used to be, but the pork ribs are still good and so  is the ham. The side dishes and desserts are the main attractions these days. There are green salads, baked potatoes, french fries, and corn on the cob,  among many other vegetables. An appealing array of elaborate desserts is also offered, including bread pudding, Dutch apple  pie, and a chocolate meringue  pie that’s over a foot tall. 
Cooper’s Old Time  
Pit Bar-B-Q
604 W YOUNG STREET  
(HIGHWAY 29), LLANO325-247-5713
No Hill Country tour is complete 
without a stop at Cooper’s in Llano, George W. Bush’s favor-ite barbecue joint. The meat is cooked cowboy-style over mesquite coals, and you order it straight from the pit and then take it inside to pay for it. The sirloin steak and pork chops are awesome, if you get them at the perfect time (see Lorenzo 
Vences’s Sirloin on page 170). The brisket is also excellent. The barbecue sauce here is bolstered with brisket juices and is truly outstanding. 
Leon’s “World’s Finest”  
In & Out B-B-Q House
5427 BROADWAY AT 55TH, GALVESTON
409-744-0070
This is a good place to grab some 
ribs to go for lunch on the beach, but if you want to sample some awesome sides (see Leon O’Neal’s Turnip Greens on page 154 and Leon’s Stepped-Up Rice on page 153), sit down at one of the eight tables. The potato salad is the best you’ll ever have at a barbecue joint.
Lum’s Bar-B-Que 
2031 N MAIN STREET, JUNCTION 
325-446-3541
On the way out to Big Bend,  
I usually stop in Junction for a rib plate or a brisket sandwich at Lum’s. It’s a grocery store with a few tables inside and a really lovely picnic area outside. The meats are smoked cowboy-style over mesquite. Rumor has it that smoked goat ribs have been available, but I’ve never seen any. There are some enticing-looking cream pies, however.Martin’s Place
3403 S COLLEGE AVENUE, BRYAN 
979-822-2031
Third-generation pitmaster  
Steven Kapchinskie runs Martin’s Place, which is named after his grandfather, Martin Kapchinskie, who opened the business in 1924. The barbecue joint was owned by Steven’s father, Albin Kap-chinskie, until his death in 1980. The restaurant is frozen in time because, as Steven explains,  “if I change anything, I have to get a building permit, and then I’d have to redo everything to code. Even if I just bought a new stove, I’d have to get a vent hood.” Ask for a tour of the ancient pits.
Neely’s Sandwich Shop
1404 E GRAND AVENUE, MARSHALL
903-935-9040 
The Brown Pig, made with 
chopped barbecued pork on a bun with mayo and shredded let-tuce, is the signature sandwich at Neely’s Sandwich Shop, and it’s become so iconic that most people mistakenly call the res-taurant Neely’s Brown Pig. When the place was founded in 1927 as Neely and Sons, the chopped pork sandwiches sold for just ﬁfteen cents each. Hickory is burned in the restaurant’s steel 
277barbecue pit, so the pork butts, 
briskets, and hams are all wood-smoked. Bill Moyers, a Marshall native and Neely’s fan, called it “the best sandwich between here and China.” 
New Zion Missionary  
Baptist Church Barbecue
2601 MONTGOMERY ROAD, 
HUNTSVILLE936-294-0884
This combination Baptist church 
and barbecue joint has been called the Church of the Holy Smoke. You sit down and eat  family-style at community tables in a little church hall. A Southern Pride stainless-steel oven has replaced the old-fashioned steel pits, but the tender East Texas–style ribs and brisket are still passable. Above all, save room for the wonderful homemade sides and desserts (see Hunts-ville Butter Beans on page 155 and Mashed Potato Salad  on page 149). 
The Salt Lick 
18300 FM 1826, DRIFTWOOD 
512-858-4959
When I was a student at the Uni-
versity of Texas, the Salt Lick had an all-you-can-eat family-style special for six or more people. These days my friends are more interested in the fabulous garden walk and idyllic country setting than in seeing how many ribs they can eat, but going out to the Salt Lick is still one of my favorite Sun-day drives. Vera’s Backyard  
Bar-B-Que
2404 SOUTHMOST ROAD, 
BROWNSVILLE 956-546-4159
Lovingly described by Lolis Eric 
Elie in his book Smokestack 
Lightning , Vera’s is the last of the 
old-school barbacoa joints that cook foil-wrapped cows’ heads in a pozo (pit) over mesquite and 
ebony coals. The best time to go  to Vera’s is at 8:00 or 9:00 
A.M.—
the heads slow-cook on the pit overnight—as the fresh, hot barbacoa meat is shredded ﬁrst thing in the morning. 
Zimmerhanzel’s BBQ
307 ROYSTON STREET  
(HIGHWAY 95), SMITHVILLE512-237-4244 
Dee Dee Bunte’s maiden name  
is Zimmerhanzel, and her family owned the building in which she and her husband, Bert Bunte,  ﬁrst opened this barbecue joint 
about three decades ago in the charming old railroad town of Smithville. The couple tried to retire some years ago, but the  townsfolk just wouldn’t leave them alone. You might say that Zimmerhanzel’s was coaxed back to life by popular demand. You’ll see why when you sample this joint’s assortment of crusty ribs,  tender brisket, and coarse-ground Czech sausage with natural casings. 
ON THE BARBECUE TRAIL
Steven Kapchinskie at the  
domino table.278
 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOKFive German 
Dance Hall Barbecues 
PETERS MOTHER’S DAY BBQ
Mother’s Day
Peters-Hacienda Community Hall 756 Trenckmann Road, SealyBBQ 11:30 
A.M. 
beef and pork Cakewalk, live auction, beanbag tournament 
INFORMATION: 281-898-1346
CAT SPRINGS DANCE  HALL BBQ
First Saturday in June  
Cat Springs Agricultural  Society Hall 13035 Hall Road, Cat Springs BBQ 11:00 
A.M. 
beef, pork, and mutton The oldest community barbecue in Texas, dating back 150 years
INFORMATION: 979-865-2540
MILLHEIM HARMONIE  VEREIN’S ANNUAL FATHER’S  DAY BARBECUE
Father’s Day
Millheim Harmonie Verein’s  Dance Hall3384 FM 949 Road (15 miles  east of Cat Springs), Sealy BBQ 11:00 
A.M. 
beef, mutton, and porkCake wheel, silent auction,  music; one of the last of the  old-fashioned open pits
INFORMATION: 979-877-4408KENNEY 4TH OF JULY BBQ
July 4
Kenney Agricultural Society Hall (off highway 36 north of Bellville), Kenney BBQ 11:00 
A.M. 
beef, mutton, and porkCake wheel, silent auction, live music; barbecue is more than a century old
INFORMATION: 979-865-0329  
(KENNEY POST OFFICE)
SONS OF HERMANN 
WASHINGTON LODGE BBQ
Third Sunday in October
Sons of Hermann Lodge9499 FM 1370, WashingtonBBQ 11:00 
A.M. 
brisket and pork butt, homemade-desserts table Cake auction, rafﬂeThree Big 
Barbecues
DUMAS DOGIE DAYS
Wednesday through Sunday of 
the second weekend in JuneMcDade Park, Dumas BBQ 11:00 
A.M. 
The town celebration that began as the Dumas Annual Old Settler’s Reunion and Rodeo became Dumas Dogie Days in 1946. The Dumas Lions Club donates the proceeds to local charities. An average of 7,600 pounds of meat are cooked in a covered pit with 15 cords of wood for 24 hours and served with 40 gallons of barbecue sauce, 800 pounds of beans, 200 pounds of onions, 228 gallon cans of peaches, and 300 loaves of bread to between 5,000 and 6,000 people.
XIT RODEO AND REUNION
First long weekend (Thursday to 
Sunday) in AugustDalhart Free beef barbecue on Saturday; other free barbecue each night.Some 10,000 pounds of beef are cooked each year in an under-ground pit for “the world’s largest free barbecue.” The event began in 1936, when cowboys and their families who worked on the now-defunct XIT Ranch began to get together for an annual reunion to reminisce about life on the ranch. Community Barbecue Calendar
279Since 1937, these reunions have 
been held in Dalhart with a parade and barbecue for the public. In recent years, the event has been expanded to include a free feed every night; in 2014, barbecued chicken wings on Thursday and barbecued pork chops on Friday, leading up to the main barbecue event on Saturday.ST. LOUIS DAY  
CELEBRATION BBQ
Sunday closest to August 25 
(Feast of St. Louis)St. Louis Catholic Church610 Madrid Street, Castroville830-931-2826According to Daniel Vaughn, in 2014, some 6,000 pounds of sau-sage and brisket were barbecued at the annual St. Louis Day Cel-ebration in Castroville, which has been held on the weekend closest to the Feast of St. Louis for over 130 years. St. Louis Catholic Church in Castroville was founded in 1870, and a Texas historical marker near the statue of St. 
Louis at the front of the church mentions the St. Louis Day tra-dition. It reads, “Men smoked sausage and pit barbecued beef. Women prepared potato salad, cabbage slaw, and desserts.” 
Whole calves were cooked 
in open pits at the early St. Louis celebrations, but by the 1960s, briskets had been substituted. In the 1990s, enclosed steel cook-ers replaced the old open pits. 
ON THE BARBECUE TRAIL
Mutton ribs are an old-fashioned 
favorite you can still find  at community barbecues.LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 280
Barbacoa 
Just as the word barbecue  has many 
meanings in English, the word barbacoa  
has many meanings in Spanish. In Mexico City, barbacoa is lamb or goat meat wrapped in maguey leaves and roasted on hot coals. In T exas, Mexican ranch hands adapted this interior Mexican style of barbacoa to roast cows’ heads, or cabezas . They wrapped them 
in maguey leaves, and later in aluminum foil and canvas, and buried them in earthen pits with hot coals. In the T ejano tradition, the term barbacoa  has come  
to mean the meat from the head of a steer, whether it is prepared in a smoker  or steamed in a conventional oven.
Beans
Whether you’re cooking dried pinto beans, butter (lima) beans, or any other variety, you have probably heard a lot of different opinions on how it should be done. Some people recommend that, to aid digestibility, you soak beans overnight and change the water. Most Mexican cooks insist that adding salt to beans before they’re done makes them tough. How much truth is there to any of this?
In an article in the Los Angeles 
Times , food editor Russ Parsons chal-
lenged these old nuggets of wisdom. According to Parsons, his own indepen-dent testing revealed that soaking the beans didn’t aid digestibility, but it did 
hurt the flavor and texture. He also said that salting the water while the beans were cooking had no effect on tender-ness but did improve the taste.
According to the bean scientists at 
the California Dried Bean Advisory Board, acids such as those present in tomatoes, chiles, and vinegar will slow the tenderizing process, so these ingre-dients should be added after the beans are cooked. 
Black Pepper
Almost every barbecue rub calls for black pepper. Some cook-off competitors swear by whole Malabar black pepper-corns, freshly ground or cracked. Others favor peppercorns from T ellicherry and Lampong. Some pitmasters combine finely ground black pepper and coarse ground black pepper in the same rub. 
Using cracked pepper in a rub gives 
the meat a distinctive flavor. Cracked pepper is very different from freshly ground pepper. The aroma and flavor of the peppercorn comes through in every bite. T o make cracked pepper, you need to crush each peppercorn into no more than eight or ten pieces. You can put whole peppercorns in a large frying pan and use a smaller frying pan to crush them, but you really need to bear down hard, and this takes a lot of strength. A BARBECUE GLOSSARY281
The easiest cracking method is to 
put the peppercorns in a food processor or spice grinder and pulse it once or twice. This method takes patience and usually requires several batches. You have to sort through the cracked pepper- corns, remove the remaining whole peppercorns, and repeat the process. The simplest way to keep cracked peppercorns is to buy a bottle of whole black peppercorns, crack them all,  and then return them to the same bottle for storage.
Chickens
The recipes in this book were tested with unenhanced (not potassium- or salt-water-injected) supermarket fryers. You can substitute free-range chickens  or roasting hens if you want, but remem- ber that the larger birds require longer cooking times. Since the skin on a barbecued chicken tends to get too dark anyway, you may want to wrap a larger chicken in aluminum foil when it reaches the desired color.
Chiles
We often use the words chile  and pepper  
interchangeably in the Southwest, but we often use them together, too. One reason for the popularity of the redun-dant term chile pepper  is that the words 
chili  and chile  refer to specific dishes in 
T exas and New Mexico. Chili  means 
“chili con carne,” but it is actually an alternate spelling of chile  and is pro-
nounced the same in English.
 FRESH CHILES  Fresh chiles are usu-
ally harvested in the green stage. Fully ripened red chiles are most often used for drying, but they also sometimes turn up fresh in the supermarket. Green or red chiles can be used interchange-ably unless the recipe specifies the color. The following fresh chiles, listed from mildest to hottest, appear in this book. 
Jalapeño  Hot, green, and bullet shaped, 
the jalapeño is the classic T ex-Mex  hot pepper and one of the world’s best-known chiles. Originally grown in Mexico, it is named for Jalapa, a town in the state of Veracruz. The fresh jalapeño has a strong, vegetal flavor to go with  the heat. I prefer to cook with fresh jala-peños, but the jalapeño is most widely consumed in its pickled form in T exas. Along with barbecue sauce, pickles, and raw onions, pickled jalapeños are a popular condiment in T exas barbecue joints. 
Serrano  Similar to the jalapeño, the 
serrano is hotter and smaller. Most Mexicans claim that serranos have a fuller, more herbaceous flavor. Since the vast majority of jalapeños are pickled, the serrano is actually the most widely used fresh chile in T exas.
Pequín  Also known as piquin, chili-
piquin, or chiltepin, this tiny chile grows wild throughout southern T exas and northern Mexico. Although “pequín” seems to be a corruption of 
A BARBECUE GLOSSARYLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 282
the Spanish pequeño , meaning “small,” 
the Spanish name itself is probably a corruption of chiltecpin , a Nahuatl word 
meaning flea chile, a reference to both the size and sting of the chile. Since these chiles were spread by birds rather than cultivation, experts tell us that pequíns are the oldest chiles in North America. In northern Mexico, they are collected in the wild and sold in markets, where they fetch more than almost any other kind of chile. They are sometimes dried and preserved for year-round use. A pequín bush can be found in almost any backyard or vacant lot in South Texas, which means that pequíns are common in home cooking. Because they are not grown commercially, they are seldom found in restaurant cooking or in grocery stores. If you find some, you can substi-tute three or four fresh pequíns for one serrano or half a jalapeño.
Handling Chiles
It’s wise to wear rubber gloves when han-dling jalapeños and serranos. Get a little juice from the cut-up pepper on your face or in your eyes and you can count on  10 minutes of sheer agony. If you don’t have rubber gloves, use a piece of plastic wrap to hold the chile while you cut it. Clean the knife and the cutting board immediately with hot soapy water. If your hands are exposed to the volatile juice, try soaking them for a few minutes in a mild bleach solution.Roasting Fresh Chiles 
T o roast a fresh chile, place it whole over a high flame on a barbecue grill or on a gas stove and turn it as needed to blister the skin on all sides. Don’t allow the flame to burn too long in one place, or you’ll burn through it. After most of the skin is well blistered, wrap the warm chile in a wet paper towel and set it aside to steam gently. When you remove the towel, most of the skin should come off with it. Scrape off the rest of the skin with a butter knife.
DRIED CHILES  The following dried 
chiles are used in recipes in this book.
Ancho  The dried form of the poblano 
chile, the ancho is very dark brown and wide (the word ancho  means “wide” in 
Spanish). Anchos are the fleshiest of the dried chiles, and their pulp combines  a little bitterness with a sweetness remi-niscent of raisins. They are usually  mild, although occasionally one will surprise you with its heat.
Chipotle The chipotle is a smoke-dried 
jalapeño. Small, wrinkled, and light brown, chipotles have an incredibly rich, smoky flavor and are usually very hot. Smoking as a method of preserving jalapeños was already common in Mexico when the Spanish first arrived. The original Nahuatl spelling, chilpotle , 
is also sometimes seen. 
To make chipotle chile powder,  
you need to use dried chipotles, but canned chipotles are acceptable in sauce 283
longer. You can speed up the process  
by simmering them gently in water on the stove top. 
If you’re making a chile purée for 
a barbecue sauce, you want the chiles very soft, so you’ll need to leave them in the water longer. When they are soft enough, pull the stems off and scoop out the seeds. Put the flesh in the blender with enough of the soaking water to get the blades turning and purée until smooth. Because chiles vary in size, you’ll have to estimate how much purée you’ll get. Anchos yield the most purée; guajillos and other shiny-skinned, less fleshy varieties yield very little. When selecting chiles to make a purée, use the softest, most pliable ones available. 
You can boost the flavor of the purée 
a little by soaking the chiles in hot stock instead of hot water. If you’re making a sauce for brisket, use beef stock. Chicken stock is good for chicken or pork.
 
Chili Powder  
and Chile Powder
Several of the recipes in this book call 
for chili powder, while others call for chile powder. These are two different things. Chili powder, which is sold in most grocery stores, contains ground chile peppers along with cumin and other spices and/or herbs. It was inven-ted by the Gebhardt Company in San Antonio in the late 1800s. 
Chile powder is made of pure 
ground chile peppers. For example, paprika, which can be sweet, medium-hot, or hot, is a chile powder. You recipes. Because canned chipotles are 
prepared in some kind of sauce, usually a vinegary adobo sauce, there is no need to soak them as described in Soaking and Puréeing Dried Chiles (below). Instead, just stem and seed them as directed and purée them with some  of the sauce from the can. 
Guajillo Tapered and with smooth, 
shiny reddish skin, the guajillo has a tart, medium-hot flavor. Dried Anaheims are also sometimes called guajillos, but Anaheims are much milder than the true guajillo. The guajillo makes a pleasantly sweet-hot chile powder and can be sub-stituted for, or added to, ancho chiles in barbecue sauce. 
Pasilla Long and skinny, the pasilla  
has black, slightly wrinkled skin and a strong, satisfying bitter flavor, and it can range from medium-hot to hot. The name comes from the Spanish pasa , 
meaning “raisin,” a reference to the appearance of the skin. The pasilla is commonly ground for chile powder and can also be used in place of, or added to, ancho chiles in barbecue sauce.
Soaking and Puréeing Dried Chiles
There’s not much to it. Just put the dried chiles in a bowl with enough hot water to cover them. Put a saucer or an upside-down coffee mug on top of the chiles to keep them submerged and leave them until they are soft. This usu-ally takes 15 to 30 minutes. Chipotles are typically very hard and tend to take 
A BARBECUE GLOSSARYLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 284
decide to use it in your cooking, consult 
an herbalist, botanist, or gardening expert to be sure you’ve got the right stuff. Pigweed is so common, however, that once you can identify it, you’ll never have to buy it again. 
Hog Casings
Because so many T exans make venison sausage, you can find medium hog cas-ings in most T exas grocery stores during deer season. But even if you don’t live in T exas, natural sausage casings aren’t that hard to find. Ask your butcher,  look in the yellow pages under Butcher’s  Supplies, or check online. 
You need about ten feet of casings 
for five pounds of sausage, but you’ll probably have to buy a lot more than that. The casings come packed in salt in fairly big plastic tubs. But don’t worry  if you have more than you need; they  are packed in salt so they keep forever.
Hot-Pepper Sauces
Some of the recipes in this book specify Tabasco sauce as an ingredient. Others call for Louisiana hot sauce. What  I mean when I say hot-pepper sauce  is a solution of vinegar or other liquid  in which pepper solids and flavorings  are suspended. This kind of sauce comes in a shaker bottle. Chunky salsas and picante  sauces are not the same thing.
Louisiana is famous for its pepper 
sauces. So is Mexico. Some are much hotter than others. For example, haba-nero hot-pepper sauces tend to be incen-diary. You can use the pepper sauces can buy other chile powders at some 
gourmet or ethnic stores, or you can make them at home in an electric cof-fee grinder. Making your own chile powders allows you to use such flavor-ful peppers as chipotles, guajillos, and pasillas in your cooking. Select brittle dried peppers for this purpose, or put pliant dried peppers into a 350˚F oven for 10 minutes to dry them out. 
Clean all of the coffee out of the 
grinder. (You may want to grind a little salt or cornmeal to rid the grinder of  any coffee residue.) Stem and seed the chile and cut it into pieces small enough to fit easily into the grinder. Grind the chile for a minute or so, or until reduced to a fine powder. I keep several bottles  of chile powder on my spice rack, labeled by variety. 
If you decide to make chile powder at 
home, remember to clean the pepper  out of the grinder, or you’ll have some very interesting coffee the next morning. 
Epazote
Prized as a pungent herb in southern Mexico, epazote is called “pigweed” by gardeners in the United States. Once seldom used in northern Mexican or T ex-Mex cooking, it is now enjoying a new popularity because it is a traditional seasoning with black beans. Although often difficult to find in grocery stores, it is, oddly enough, easy to find in  your garden. It has a jagged leaf that looks something like marijuana and has a strong soapy smell vaguely reminis-cent of cilantro. If you pull some up and 285
Salt 
Several varieties of salt are called for in 
this book because the folks who gave  me the recipes all have their favorites. Table salt (sodium chloride) is mined salt that is mixed with additives to keep it free-flowing, and it often also includes iodine (sodium iodide) in areas where the diet is deficient in this important mineral. It tastes saltier than kosher salt or sea salt. If a recipe calls for “salt,” table salt is what we’re talking about.
Kosher salt is pure mined salt, and it 
is often used in meat curing. 
Sea salt is made from sea water by  
a more costly evaporative process. Sea  salt has become the preferred salt of many gourmets because of its flavor.  It will work fine in most of the recipes  in this book. 
Smoked T omatoes
While you have your barbecue going, I highly recommend that you get into the habit of smoking a few tomatoes. Smoked tomatoes are the secret of truly great sauces and salsas. Generally,  you can place tomatoes on the barbecue for half an hour, but smoking times  will vary. Roma tomatoes tend to take longer. T ender summer tomatoes will not take long at all. Substitute the smoked tomatoes for fresh tomatoes in salsas or any recipe that calls for tomatoes. interchangeably, thereby making your 
food as hot as you like it. 
Mexican Oregano
Mexican oregano is a member of the verbena family and is very different from Mediterranean oregano. It can be found dried in Mexican markets and some supermarkets, but it is sometimes difficult to find fresh. Planting a little in your garden is the best guarantee of having some on hand. 
MSG
If you want to be a barbecue judge,  you’d better not be too sensitive to this stuff. Monosodium glutamate, a.k.a. MSG, is one reason that so many cook-off competitors like to keep their recipes secret. Because MSG has gotten such  a bad name, nobody wants to admit that the barbecue rub is spiked with it.  But the truth is, the stuff really does make things taste better, and if I were trying  to win a barbecue cook-off, I would use it too. Barbecue joints, on the other hand, have had to stop using MSG because so many people complain about it. It’s used in many commercial rubs and barbecue sauces, so check the ingredients list care-fully if you want to avoid it. 
Rice
Long-grain white rice will work fine, but I much prefer the long-grain basmati hybrid called T exmati. It is aromatic and retains a nutty firmness when cooked. Basmati is an excellent substitute.
A BARBECUE GLOSSARYLEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 286
Heating Tortillas  
Store-bought flour or corn tortillas need to be heated before serving. The easiest method is to wrap them in aluminum  foil and stick them in a 350˚F oven for  5 to 10 minutes. Corn tortillas can also be wrapped in a clean dish towel that has been slightly dampened and put into the oven. The moisture from the towel will steam them slightly and improve their texture as they warm up. 
When you need only a few flour 
tortillas, it’s even easier to put them into an ungreased skillet over medium heat and to flip them quickly as they warm, shuffling the tortillas until each side  has been in contact with the skillet for  10 seconds or so. Teja no
The word tejano  simply means “T exan” 
in modern Spanish, but it has taken on much wider connotations. Mexican-Americans of T exan ancestry also call themselves Tejanos. Some Tejano fami-lies trace their heritage back to the state’s original settlers. They are the T exas equivalent of New England families whose ancestors came over on the May-flower. As T ejanos are fond of pointing out, they didn’t immigrate to the  United States; the border moved south. 
T omatillos
Husk-covered tomatillos, which are tart and nearly always cooked before eating, are widely available in grocery stores. Look for firm, unblemished tomatillos with tight husks. Many Mexican cooks say that the smaller tomatillos are more flavorful.
T ortillas
Nowadays, many grocery stores stock a wide variety of tortillas. There are plain and flavored flour tortillas, fluffy white corn tortillas, and old-fashioned corn tortillas. The old-fashioned corn ones, sometimes called enchilada tortillas, are the most common. They are very thin and somewhat leathery but hold  up well in cooking. Save these for frying. Use the flour tortillas and fluffy white corn tortillas for serving at the table; flour for sausage wraps and brisket tacos, corn with barbacoa and lengua.RUTHIE'S
PIT BAR-B-Q
RUTHER
MUTION
MUTION
MUTION
MUTION288
 LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOKElgin Sausage
There’s nothing quite like 
T exas barbecue sausage,  and it ships pretty well. Once you try it, you’ll be back for more.
Meyer’s Elgin 
Smokehouse 
Choose from these ﬂavors:  
plain, garlic, sage, beef, or hot.800-677-6465
Southside Market
Southside can ship you its famous sausage already smoked and ready to reheat, along with its summer sausages, hot sauce, and barbecue sauce. Gift boxes are also available. www.southsidemarket.com  512-281-4650
Dry Rubs  
and Sauces
Adams Rubs
Adams makes an excellent brisket 
rub that contains plenty of salt, pepper, and spices and the  natural meat tenderizer papain, but no MSG.www.adamsextract.com512-359-3050Barbecue
Lots of T exas barbecue 
restaurants cater major events all over the country. Just contact the restaurant  of your choice. Some will also ship small amounts  of heat-and-serve barbecue  by overnight delivery service. Here are a few you can try.
City Market 
(SCHULENBURG) 
“The best little meat market in 
Texas” ships its famous jalapeño sausage, as well as ready-to-eat snacks like dry jerky-style sau-sage and peppered pork tender-loin by overnight express. www.citymarketsch.com  
800-793-3440 
County Line Barbecue 
(10 LOCATIONS)
The County Line is a very suc- cessful barbecue restaurant chain with locations in Austin, San Antonio, Houston, El Paso, and Albuquerque. The restaurants are very clean and attractive, and the barbecue is generally very good, too. For overnight delivery,  call 800-AIR-RIBS (247-7427).www.airribs.comGoode Company and 
Barbecue
At Goode Company’s online store, 
you can buy smoked brisket, ribs, sausage and smoked turkeys, barbecue rubs and sauces, hats and t-shirts, and a wide assort-ment of gift baskets including one  
that contains this book. But the biggest seller by far is an out- standing pecan pie packaged in  a sturdy wooden box.www.goodecompany.com
The Salt Lick
The Salt Lick in Driftwood sells barbecued meats, barbecue sauce, rubs, salsa, and t-shirts  online along with their cookbook and gift certiﬁcates.www.saltlickbbq.com
Snow’s BBQ
Texas Monthly ’s number-one 
barbecue joint in 2008 ships a wide variety of meats, sauces, and souvenirs. www.snowsbbq.com979-542-8189ONLINE AND  
MAIL-ORDER SOURCES
289 ONLINE AND MAIL-ORDER SOURCESAdkins Western Style 
Barbecue Seasoning
A favorite North Texas blend.  
Gift packs of various seasoning mixes are also available.www.adkinsbbq.com800-356-2914
Bolner’s Fiesta 
This famous San Antonio spice company makes brisket rub,  rib rub, pork rub, and chicken rub, along with barbecue crab season-ing, fajita seasoning, and chili mix. Buy a case and get a discount. www.ﬁestaspices.com
Butt Rub
Created by Texas native and Culinary Institute of America grad Byron Chism, this is one of  the most popular pork rubs in  the country among cook-off competitors.www.buttrub.com850-267-3661
Craig’s Texas  
Pepper Jelly 
Craig Sherry, proprietor of Texas 
Pepper Jelly, was the Grand Champion Cook at the 2011 Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-Off.  His pepper jellies have become the winningest glazes on the barbecue circuit. Popular ﬂavors include the following:Apple Habanero Pepper JellyCherry Habanero Pepper Jelly Mango Habanero Rib CandyPineapple Habanero Pepper Jelly www.texaspepperjelly.com713-702-3489Daigle’s Cajun  
Sweet & Sour
The Daigle family’s famous Cajun 
sweet-hot sauces have become a favorite rib and chicken glaze for barbecue competitors. Gayle Daigle at Daigle Family Co. takes orders by Internet or over the phone. “We are one call away if you would like help with a recipe,” Gayle promises on the family web-site. Favorite products include:Cajun Sweet & Sour SauceCajun Sweet & Sour Sauce SpicyCajun Sweet Pecan Garlic SauceCajun Sweet Applewood  
Jalapeno Sauce
Cajun Sweet Habanero Rib Sauce www.cajunsweetandsoursauce .com337-298-7897 
Harley’s Texas Style  
Bar-B-Que Seasoning
The winningest cook-off competi-
tor in Texas sells his own dry  rub, with or without MSG.www.harleysseasoning.com 866-478-1851 
TexJoy Bar-B-Q 
Seasoning
The favorite dry rub at New Zion 
Missionary Baptist Church Barbe-cue and many other Texas barbe-cue joints. www.texjoy.com 800-259-3400Stubb’s Rubs and  
Bar-B-Q Sauces
Although the master, C. B. 
Stubbleﬁeld, has passed on, his legend lives on in spice rubs and sauces worthy of their namesake.www.stubbsbbq.com 512-480-0203
Fuel
B&B Charcoal
Lump oak charcoal and lump hardwood charcoals.www.bbcharcoal.com 855-BBQ-COAL  (227-2625)
Western Premium  
BBQ Products 
The largest selection of woods 
for barbecue in Texas, including orange, peach, and other  exotic fruitwoods.www.woodinc.com830-569-2501
Cows’ Heads  
for Barbacoa
If your grocery store or meat 
market cannot get you a  cow’s head for barbacoa, you  can call Sam Kane in Corpus Christi and arrange a shipment. www.kanebeef.com316-241-5000
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 290
T exas barbecue cook-off participants keep track of upcoming events, who is winning 
what, changes in the rules, and general gossip through barbecue associations. Several  of these groups have newsletters that they can send you for more information about  barbecue cook-offs in your area. 
Central Texas Barbecue Association (CTBA)  WWW.CTBABBQ.COM 
International Barbeque Cookers Association (IBCA)  WWW.IBCABBQ.ORG
Lone Star Barbecue Society (LSBS)  WWW.LONESTARBARBECUE.COM  
National Barbecue Association (NBBQA)  WWW.NBBQA.ORG
Texas Gulf Coast BBQ Cookers Association (TGCBCA)  WWW.TGCBCA.ORG
West Texas Barbecue Association (WTBA)  WWW.WTBABBQ.TRIPOD.COM
The mission of Foodways T exas is to preserve, promote and  
celebrate the diverse food cultures of T exas. FoodwaysT exas.comBARBECUE ASSOCIATIONS
food291 BIBLIOGRAPHYBibliography
Aidells, Bruce, and Denis Kelly. The Complete Meat Cookbook . New York: Houghton  
Mifflin, 1998.
Andrews, Jean. Peppers: The Domesticated Capsicums . Austin: University of T exas  
Press, 1984. 
Bayless, Rick. Authentic Mexican . New York: Morrow, 1987.
Caro, Robert A. The Path to Power . New York: Vintage, 1981.
Cusik, Heidi Haughy. Soul and Spice: African Cooking in the Americas . San Francisco:  
Chronicle Books, 1995.
Dearen, Patrick. A Cowboy of the Pecos . Plano: Republic of Texas Press, 1997.
Dobie, J. Frank. A Vaquero of the Brush Country . Austin: University of T exas Press,  
reissue edition (originally published by Southwest Press, 1929), 1998.
Ellis, Merle. Cutting Up in the Kitchen: A Butcher’s Guide to Saving Money on Meat  
and Poultry . San Francisco: Chronicle Books, 1975.
Ferber, Edna. Giant . New York: Doubleday, 1952.
Flemmons, Jerry. More Texas Siftings . Fort Worth: T exas Christian University Press, 1997.
Foley, Neil. White Scourge: Mexicans, Blacks, and Poor Whites in Texas Cotton Culture .  
 Berkeley: University of California Press, 1999.
Kafka, Barbara. Roasting . New York: Morrow, 1995.
Linck, Ernestine Sewell, and Joyce Gibson Roach. Eats: A Folk History of Texas Food .  
 Fort Worth: T exas Christian University Press, 1992.
Luchetti, Cathy. Home on the Range: A Culinary History of the American West .  
 New York: Villard, 1993.
Price, Byron B. National Cowboy Hall of Fame Chuck Wagon Cookbook . New York:  
 Hearst Books, 1995.
Thorne, John. Serious Pig . New York: North Point Press, 1996.
Online Sources
The Handbook of T exas Online: www.TSHAonline.org
Farm Security Administration / Office of War Information Transcripts: American  
Memory Collections, Library of Congress: Memory.loc.gov/ammem
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 292
Photo Credits
BETTMAN/CORBIS: 208–209
LBJ Library, Robert Knudsen: 167LBJ Library, Yoichi Okamoto: 36, 132Robert Jacob Lerma: 11, 14, 43, 46–47, 
56, 61, 73, 76, 81, 86, 88, 92–93,  121, 126, 144, 158–159, 169, 183, 236–237, 245, 254, 255, 264–265, 267, 268, 269, 271, 273, 277, 279, 294, 303
Library of Congress, FSA-OWI 
Collection, Dorothea Lange: 179
Library of Congress, FSA-OWI 
Collection, Russell Lee: 4–5, 100–101, 136 –137, 176 –177
Courtesy Karen Mayberry: 146Wyatt McSpadden: 29, 96–97, 116–117, 
216–217
Michael Murphy: 20-21T exas State Library Archives Division: 
2–3, 22–23, 31, 32–33, 34
University of Texas, Arlington, Fort 
Worth Star Telegram Collection
The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 84-484, Courtesy of Margaret Virginia Crain Lowery: 26–27
The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 80–516, Courtesy of the Estate of Roger Fleming: 30
The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 76-388, Courtesy of Mrs. Stacy Labaj: 122–123
The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 96-384, Courtesy of Pat S. Woods: 131The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 3042-D, The San Antonio Light Collection: 230–231
The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 3042-F , The San Antonio Light Collection: Cover, 161
The UT Institute of T exan Cultures, 
no. 4-26-1990 F , The San Antonio Express-News Collection: 193
Scott Van Osdol: 38–39Will van Overbeek: 12–13Robb Walsh: 51, 53, 80, 104, 139, 141, 
150–151, 170, 182, 187, 190–191, 195, 198–199, 200–201, 228, 242, 246, 251, 252, 287
Permissions
Espresso Barbecue Sauce from Franklin Barbecue: A Meat-Smoking Manifesto by Aaron Franklin and Jordan Mackay, copyright © 2015 by Aaron Franklin. Used by permission of T en Speed Press, an imprint of the Crown Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Random House LLC.  All rights reserved.
293
 ACKNOWLEDGMENTSAcknowledgments
Thanks to Bill LeBlond at Chronicle Books for taking a chance fifteen years ago, 
and to D.J. Stout for a design that has stood the test of time. Thanks to Amy Treadwell, Doug Ogan, Alice Chau, and T era Killip at Chronicle Books for bringing this second edition to life. And th anks to Dr. Jeff Savell and the gang at 
T exas A&M Meat Science Center for sharing their passion for T exas barbecue. 
I am grateful to Marvin Bendele, Bryan Caswell, John T . Edge, Elizabeth 
Engelhardt, Randy Evans, Levi Goode, Jim Gossen, Chris Shepherd, Kelly Yandell, and all the other folks who pulled together to get Foodways T exas off the ground. And I invite all T exas barbecue lovers to join the organization and help us preserve and celebrate the history of T exas barbecue. 
Thanks to all the pitmasters, cook-off competitors, and restaurant owners who 
took the time to talk to me and help me with recipes and advice, especially Robert Sierra, Ernest Servantes, Will and Nichole Buckman, Justin and Diane Fourton, Aaron Franklin, Vencil Mares, Harley Goerlitz, Marvin Lange, T ommy Wimberly, Rockney T erry, Bill Smolik, Louis Charles Henley, Bryan Bracewell, Rick Schmidt, John Fullilove, Willie Mays, and Leon O’Neal. 
Thanks to the outstanding photographers who have contributed to this book, 
especially Robert Lerma, Will van Overbeek, Michael Murphy, Scott Van Osdol, and Wyatt McSpadden.
And thanks to my fellow T exas barbecue writers for all the inspiration, help,  
and goodwill, especially Daniel Vaughn, J. C. Reid, Bud Kennedy, and Jim Shahin.
Many thanks also to the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Barbecue Cook-
Off, the Taylor International Barbecue Cook-Off, and to the entire fraternity of barbecue cook-off organizers, volunteers, judges, and competitors.
Barbecue fans owe a special debt of gratitude to the families who maintain the 
Lone Star State’s unique traditions, especially the Mueller family, the Burney family, the Black family, the Bracewell family, the Mays family, the Smolik family, the Schmidt family, the Gatlin family, and the Goode family. Their dedication to preserving the culinary culture and folklore of T exas is an inspiration to food  lovers everywhere.
Pitmaster Jason Tedford stokes the 
fire at Louie Mueller in Taylor.295
 INDEXIndex
A
Abernathy, Ralph, 139
Adams, Ricky, 51African-American barbecue traditions, 31, 37, 
138–39, 192, 194
Allen, Terry, 275Alpine, 53Aluminum foil, 54, 141Angelo’s Bar-B-Que, 274, 275Apples  Apfelkraut, 133  Red Cabbage, 132Art’s Ribs & BBQ, 204Artz Rib House, 204Associations, 290Austin, 31, 41, 48, 119, 139, 143, 145, 147, 194, 
204, 237, 254, 266, 270, 271, 275
Austin, Stephen F., 31Austin’s BBQ, 272Avalon BBQ, 146Avocados  Garlicky Guacamole, 227
B
Barbacoa  cooking methods for, 216, 218–19, 220  de pozo, 224  Ernest’s Mesquite-Smoked Barbacoa, 221  Gerardo’s Barbacoa de Borrego, 222–23  history of, 19, 30–31, 218  meanings of, 218, 280  Paula’s Turkey Roaster Oven Barbacoa, 220  Robb’s Foil Pan Barbacoa, 220–21  sources for, 289Barbecue
etymology of, 35, 37fatty, 42history of, 30–31, 34–37, 40–42, 160, 163, 178,  
180–81, 224, 263
overview of, 18–19revival of, 41–42styles of, 95, 139Barbecue Summer Camp, 47, 48, 51, 59, 255
Barbecue trailers, 50Barber, Monte, 145Bar-B-Que Done Right, 213Barrel smokers, 49–50, 63Beans, 280  Beans and Sausage, 183  Borracho Beans, 229  Huntsville Butter Beans, 155  Leon O’Neal’s Green Beans, 154  Vencil’s Slow Beans, 183Beaumont, 275Bee Cave, 64Beef. See also Barbacoa; Beef ribs; Brisket  cuts of, 238–39  Jetton’s Beef Stock Mop, 165  Jim Goode’s Beef Rub, 249  Joe Burney’s Juicy Links, 146  Lockhart Prime Rib, 242  Lengua (Tongue), 224  Lorenzo Vences’s Sirloin, 170–71  Maurice Mikeska’s Tri-Tip, 243  recommended temperature for, 65  Rick Schmidt’s Shoulder Roast, 244  Vencil Mares’s Bohunk Sausage, 182  Walter Jetton’s Barbecued Beef for 250, 164Beef ribs, 245  Ray Lopez’s Beef Ribs, 246  Smoke-Braised Beef Ribs, 247Bewley, A. N., 40Black, Edgar, Jr., 60, 95, 181, 252–53Black, Edgar, Sr., 266Black’s Barbecue, 60, 95, 181, 186, 252, 266Blondin, Art, 111, 204Bologna Sandwiches, Railhead’s Barbecued, 185Boning knives, 55Borracho Beans, 229Boudin-Stuffed Pork Chops, 213Bourbon Glaze, 207Bracewell, Bryan, 126, 183, 268Bracewell, Ernest, Sr., 268Brady Goat Cook-Off, 172Brining, 78Brisket, 239–40  alternatives to, 240  Barbecue Joint Brisket Sauce, 98
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 296
  Cooper’s Cowboy Brisket, 253
  Darrington Penitentiary Barbecued Brisket,  
  258
  Edgar Black Jr.’s Overnight Brisket, 252  grades, 255  Jim Goode’s “Plugged” Brisket, 248  Mustang Creek’s Bohemian Special, 184  new school of, 254  Robb’s Brisket Disaster Sandwiches, 259  Robert Sierra’s Brisket, 256–57  slicing, 241  timing, 249  Walter Jetton’s Barbecued Beef for 250, 164  wrapped in foil, 239–40  yield, 249Brooks’ Place, 274Brownsville, 31, 216, 277Bryan, 41Bryan Bracewell’s Venison Sausage, 126Buccaneers, 263Buckman, Will and Nichole, 42, 270Bull’s-Eye Pork Tenderloin, 225Bundy, Beverly, 128Bunte, Dee Dee and Bert, 277Burney, Joe, 146–47, 212Burney’s Barbecue, 146, 147, 212Burnt Bean Co., 81Bush, Barbara, 108Bush, George H. W., 108Bush, George W., 98, 276, 272Butcher paper, 54
C
Cabbage. See also Sauerkraut  Black’s Simple Slaw, 186  Coleslaw, 129  Laura Novosad’s Confetti Slaw, 187  Red Cabbage, 132  Summer Slaw, 129  Texas-Size Coleslaw, 166  Uncle Kermit’s Barbecued Cabbage, 130Camerons Professional Cookware, 52Camp Brisket, 48, 59, 255Capello, Joe, 180Carter, Gregory, 213Carving knives, 55, 57Castroville, 279
Cat Springs Dance Hall BBQ, 278Cesares, Juan, 231Charcoal, 59, 289Chicken, 281  Buttery Chicken Injection, 83  Buttery Glazed Half Chicken, 81–82  Marvin Lange’s Barbecued Chicken, 80  Orange-Tiger Chicken Glaze, 85  recommended temperature for, 65  Red River Ranch Chicken Rub, 84  Rockney Terry’s Brined Chicken, 78Chile powder, 283–84Chiles  Ancho Barbecue Sauce, 99  Barbecued Tomato Salsa, 112  Chipotle Ketchup, 111  Cold River Cattle Company BBQ Sauce for  
  250, 168
  handling, 282  Jalapeño Potato Salad, 233  Jalapeño Rib Glaze, 211  Pickled Jalapeños, 232  Pico de Gallo, 113  Rebekah’s Grapefruit-Chipotle Sauce, 106  roasting fresh, 282  Shaker Bottle Pepper Sauce, 110  soaking and puréeing dried, 283  terms for, 281  varieties of, 281–83Chili powder, 283Chimney starters, 54Chisholm Trail Bar-B-Q, 266City Market (Luling), 103, 119, 180, 272City Market (Schulenburg), 19, 78, 272, 288City Meat Market (Giddings), 272Clark’s Outpost, 276Clewis, Benny Wade, 240, 258Cold smokers, 52Cold River Cattle Company, 76, 168Coleslaw. See SlawsCommunity barbecues, 31, 278–79Cooking temperatures, 64, 65Cook-offs, 70–72, 81Cooper’s Old Time Pit Bar-B-Q, 60, 94, 98, 170, 
171, 253, 276297
 INDEXCorkScrew BBQ, 42, 270
Corpus Christi, 8, 35Cotten, Joe, 35Cotton pickers, 178–81County Line Barbecue, 288Cuero, 19, 104Curing, 78Cypress, 274Czech barbecue traditions, 19, 34, 118, 120, 160, 
184
D
Dalhart, 31, 35, 278–79Dallas, 41, 254, 266, 271Darrington Penitentiary Barbecued Brisket, 258Davis, Edgar Byram, 31Davis, John and Leila, 194, 275Diaz Ordaz, Gustavo, 165Direct heat, 62Doak, William N., 180Dobie, J. Frank, 42Doneness, testing for, 64, 65Dozier’s Grocery, 19, 262, 272Driftwood, 277Drip pans, 54–55Dumas Dogie Days, 278
E
Eagle Lake, 272East Texas Rib Sandwiches, 212Elgin, 118, 126, 180, 181, 182, 183, 266, 268–69Elie, Lolis Eric, 277Ely, Joe, 275Enhanced meats, 84Epazote, 284Equipment, 49–52, 54–55, 57–59Ernst, Johann Friedrich, 118Espresso Barbecue Sauce, Franklin’s, 105Esquivel, Ray, 98
F
Falfurrias, 98Falls County Barbecue Team, 76, 196Fire, starting, 62–64Flavor injectors, 55Florence, 204Flores, Richard, 168
Foley, Neil, 180Foodways Texas, 48Fort Worth, 35, 36, 42, 185, 274, 275Fourton, Diane, 41, 271Fourton, Justin, 41, 245, 254, 271Franklin, Aaron, 41, 42, 43, 60, 65, 105, 254, 270Franklin Barbecue, 41, 60, 254, 270, 271Fuels, 59–60, 289Fullilove, John, 64, 125, 242Fulshear, 19, 262
 G
Galveston, 138, 153, 154, 276Garlicky Guacamole, 227Garner, Matt, 146Gas grills, 52Gatlin, Greg, 144, 274Gatlin’s BBQ, 142, 144, 274Gerardo’s Drive-In, 222German barbecue traditions, 18, 19, 34–35, 37, 
118–20, 160, 163
German Potato Salad, 127German Sweet Potato Salad, 127Giddings, 272Giddings Barbecue Cook-Off, 73Glazes, 85  Bourbon Glaze, 207  Jalapeño Rib Glaze, 211  Orange-Tiger Chicken Glaze, 85Gloves, 55Goat, Barbecued, 172Goerlitz, Harley, 59, 73, 75, 109, 240Gonzales, 136, 228, 272Gonzales Food Market, 228, 245, 246, 272Goode, Jim, 239, 248–50, 275Goode Company Barbecue, 239, 248, 275, 288Granger, Gordon, 138Granton, 57Grapefruit-Chipotle Sauce, Rebekah’s, 106Great American Barbecue, 31Green, Harry, 146, 147Green’s, 36Greens, Leon O’Neal’s Turnip, 154Grill thermometers, 58Guacamole, Garlicky, 227LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 298
H
Hallettsville, 36, 104, 118, 187, 273
Handsborough, Adrian, 273Hard Heads BBQ Team, 83Harper, Johnny, 219Henley, Louis Charles, 141Hill Country, 18, 119, 126, 276Hill Country Barbecue, 266Hillje, 184Hog casings, 284Hoover, Herbert, 180Hot-pepper sauces, 284–85House Park Bar-B-Que, 139, 147Houston, 36, 37, 40, 119, 144, 146, 194, 212, 213, 
222, 239, 248, 273, 274–75
Houston, Sam, 31Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo Barbecue 
Cook-Off, 74, 76, 168, 289
Humphrey, Hubert, 208Hunt, Larry, 163Huntsville, 149, 150, 155, 198, 202, 277
I
iGrill, 58–59Indirect heat, 62
J
Jackson Street Barbecue, 144J & R Manufacturing, 40Jetton, Walter, 31, 35–36, 37, 75, 163, 164, 165Johnny’s Bar-B-Q Pit, 219, 224Johnson, Lady Bird, 107, 165Johnson, Lyndon B., 31, 35, 163, 165, 208. See 
also LBJ Ranch
Johnson, Myrtle Miller, 192, 193, 194Jones, Anderson, 138Junction, 276Juneteenth, 138–39
K
Kapchinskie, Albin, 276Kapchinskie, Martin, 276Kapchinskie, Steven, 276, 277Karnes City, 178, 273Kenney 4th of July BBQ, 278Ketchup, Chipotle, 111
Kilgore, 74Killen, Ronnie, 41, 245, 270Killen’s Barbecue, 41, 245, 254, 270Klassic Kookers, 74Knives  sharpening, 57  types of, 55, 57Knowlton, Andrew, 270Kreuz Market, 29, 49, 60, 64, 94, 116, 119, 120, 
125, 163, 181, 240, 242, 244, 266, 267
 L
La Barbecue Cuisine Texicana, 237, 271La Grange, 118, 273Lamb  Barbecued Leg of Lamb, 73  Gerardo’s Barbacoa de Borrego, 222–23  Mustard Sauce, 109  recommended temperature for, 65  Sam’s Mutton, 140Lange, Marvin, 80Larding, 248LBJ Ranch, 31, 163, 164, 165, 208Lengua (Tongue), 224Lenox Bar-B-Q, 37, 275Leon’s “World Finest” In & Out B-B-Q House, 
153, 154, 276
Lewis, Bobby, 191Lewis, John, 237, 271Lexington, 8, 60, 271Llano, 60, 98, 170, 253, 276Lloyd Bentsen Highway Rice Salad, 152Lockhart, 37, 60, 64, 94, 95, 116, 119, 125, 181, 
244, 252, 266
Lockhart Smokehouse, 266Lopez, Adrian, 228Lopez, Ray, 246Lopez, Richard, 273Los Ebanos, 219Lott, Oscar, 146Lott’s Barbecue, 147Louie Mueller Barbecue, 20, 96, 181, 245, 267, 
268
Louise, 184Lubbock, 178
299
 INDEXLuling, 31, 103, 118, 119, 180, 272
Lum’s Bar-B-Que, 276Luna, Paula, 219, 220, 224
M
Macaroni Salad, Gonzales Food Market, 228Machu, J. R., 122Mail order sources, 288–89March, Frank, 168Mares, Vencil, 42, 58, 124, 180, 182, 183, 241, 267Market Bar-B-Que and Fresh Meats, 104, 273Martin’s Place, 277Mashed Potato Salad, 149Mayberry, Karen, 146–47, 212Mayberry, Waymon, 147Mayonnaise, 128Mays, Joseph, 140Mays, Sam, 140, 194Mays, Wanda, 140, 194Mays, Willie, 140, 194McLuhan, Marshall, 263McNeill, Leonard, 37, 40, 275Meat markets, 119–20, 272–73Meat thermometers, 58Mesquite, 40Meyer’s Elgin Smokehouse, 268–69, 288Mikeska, Clem, 12Mikeska, Jerry, 12Mikeska, Maurice, 12, 243Mikeska, Rudy, 12, 187Miles Messenger Messy Cookers, 172Miller, Harvey, 192, 194Miller’s Bar-B-Q, 192, 193, 194Millheim Father’s Day Barbecue, 11, 92, 158, 
160, 269, 278
Minion, Jim, 63Miss Ann’s Playpen, 191Mixon, Myron, 72, 81Moore, Norma, 133Mops (basting sauces), 75, 141  Jetton’s Beef Stock Mop, 165  Jim Goode’s Barbecue Mop, 250  Klassic Mop, 74Mops (equipment), 57Moyers, Bill, 277Mrok, Erik, 37, 275MSG, 285
Mueller, Louie, 267Mueller, Wayne, 245Mustang Creek BBQ, 184, 185Mustard  Mustard Potato Salad, 128  Mustard Sauce, 109
 N
Navasota, 141Neely’s Sandwich Shop, 276–77New Zion Missionary Baptist Church Barbecue, 
149, 150, 155, 198, 202–3, 277
Novosad, Laura, 187Novosad, Nathan, 187Novosad’s B-B-Q and Sausage Market, 36, 187, 
273
 O
O’Daniel, W. Lee “Pappy,” 31, 32, 34Offset barbecue pits, 50, 63–64Old Coupland Inn, 269Old Three Hundred, 31O’Neal, Leon, 153, 154Online sources, 288–89Orange-Tiger Chicken Glaze, 85Oregano, Mexican, 285Oven, finishing in, 65Oversmoking, 65Oyler, Herbert, 40
 P
Pachanga, 226Palestine, 38Pans  aluminum foil, 54  drip, 54–55  water, 55Parks, C-Boy, 139Parsons, Russ, 280Patillo, Frank, IV, 275Patillo’s Bar-B-Q, 275Pearland, 41, 245, 254, 270Pecan Lodge, 41, 245, 254, 271Pellet smokers, 52Pepper, 280–81
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 300
Perez, Roy, 29, 56
Peters Mother’s Day BBQ, 278Pharr, 219Pickled Jalapeños, 232Pico de Gallo, 113Pits  brick and masonry, 51  evolution of, 31, 35–37  offset, 50, 63–64  open, 160, 163  portable, 40–41Pitt’s & Spitt’s, 40, 41, 50Pizzitola, Jerry, 194, 275Pizzitola’s Bar-B-Cue, 194, 275Pokers, 57Pool, Travis Hogue, 161Pork, 18. See also Pork ribs; Sausage  Barbecued Apple Juice Pork Loin, 79  Barbecued Honey Pork Loin, 79  Barbecued Maple Pork Loin, 79  BBQ Pork and Garlicky Guacamole  
  Sandwiches, 226
  Boudin-Stuffed Pork Chops, 213  Bull’s-Eye Pork Tenderloin, 225  Cooper’s Cowboy Pork Chops, 171  Gatlin’s Pulled Pork Sandwich, 142  Gatlin’s Vinegar Pepper Sauce for Pork, 144  Harley’s Pork Shoulder, 73  House Park Pork Loin Sandwiches, 147  Lockhart Pork Loin, 125  parboiling, 141  Pulled Pork, 142  recommended temperature for, 65  Rockney Terry’s Pork Rub, 76  Stubb’s Hot Pork Rub, 143  Sweet Pork Rub, 205Pork ribs  Art Blondin’s Chipotle-Marinated Ribs, 204  baby back, 197  East Texas Rib Sandwiches, 212  Falls County Easy Pork Ribs, 196  4 and up, 197  Johnny Trigg’s Spareribs, 86–87  Monte Barber’s Country-Style Ribs, 145  New Zion Ribs, 202–3  Oversize 3-2-1 Ribs, 210  ’regulars, 212
  Robert Sierra’s Baby Back Ribs, 88–89  Rosemary Broasted Big Ribs, 206  St. Louis cut, 197  skinning, 197  3½ and down, 197, 201Potatoes  German Potato Salad, 127  Jalapeño Potato Salad, 233  Mashed Potato Salad, 149  Mustard Potato Salad, 128Prasek’s Hillje Smokehouse, 184Prause Meat Market, 273Pulled Pork, 142
 Q
Quayle, Bernard, 35Quinn, Barnaby, 35
 R
Railhead Smokehouse, 185, 275Rankin, Lonnie, 172, 173Ray, Heath, 76Ray’s Roundup and Quick Stop, 98Red River Ranch Chicken Rub, 84’Regulars, 212Ribs. See Beef ribs; Pork ribsRice, 285  Leon’s Stepped-Up Rice, 153  Lloyd Bentsen Highway Rice Salad, 152Rivers, Howard, 198, 202Roberts, Thurmond and Hisako, 277Roese, Bubba, 163Rosemary Broasted Big Ribs, 206Rotisseries, 40Rubs  Heath Ray’s Rub, 76  Jim Goode’s Beef Rub, 249  Louis Charles Henley’s All-Purpose Rub,  
  141
  Rankin’s Spicy Dry Rub, 173  Red River Ranch Chicken Rub, 84  Rockney Terry’s Pork Rub, 76  sources for, 288–89  Stubb’s Hot Pork Rub, 143  Sweet Pork Rub, 205
301
 INDEX  32 Pounds of Dry Rub, 166
Ruthie’s Pit Bar-B-Q, 141, 287
S
Sáenz, Andrés, 224St. Louis Day Celebration BBQ, 279Sakewitz, Kermit, 130Salads. See also Slaws  German Potato Salad, 127  German Sweet Potato Salad, 127  Gonzales Food Market Macaroni Salad, 228  Jalapeño Potato Salad, 233  Lloyd Bentsen Highway Rice Salad, 152  Mashed Potato Salad, 149  Mustard Potato Salad, 128Salsas  Barbecued Tomato Salsa, 112  Pico de Gallo, 113Salt, 285Salt Lick, 277, 288Sam’s BBQ, 140, 194, 275San Antonio, 179, 192, 193, 194Sanchez, Cecil, 184, 185S&S Pit Crew, 88Sandwiches  BBQ Pork and Garlicky Guacamole  
  Sandwiches, 226
  East Texas Rib Sandwiches, 212  Gatlin’s Pulled Pork Sandwich, 142  House Park Pork Loin Sandwiches, 147  Mustang Creek’s Bohemian Special, 184  Railhead’s Barbecued Bologna  
  Sandwiches, 185
  Robb’s Brisket Disaster Sandwiches, 259  sausage, 186  Walter Jetton’s Barbecued Beef for 250, 164Sauces, 94–95. See also Glazes; Mops; Salsas  Ancho Barbecue Sauce, 99  Barbara Bush’s Barbecue Sauce, 108  Barbecue Joint Brisket Sauce, 98  Cold River Cattle Company BBQ Sauce for  
  250, 168
  Easy Meat Market Sauce, 104  Franklin’s Espresso Barbecue Sauce, 105  Gatlin’s Vinegar Pepper Sauce for Pork, 144  hot-pepper, 284–85
  Lady Bird Johnson’s Barbecue Sauce, 107  Luling Barbecue Sauce, 103  Mustard Sauce, 109  Rebekah’s Grapefruit-Chipotle Sauce, 106  Shaker Bottle Pepper Sauce, 110  sources for, 288–89  Spicy Chipotle Sauce, 102Sauerkraut  Apfelkraut, 133  Sauerkraut Slaw, 129Sausage, 18–19  Beans and Sausage, 183  Boudin-Stuffed Pork Chops, 213  Bryan Bracewell’s Venison Sausage, 126  casings, 284  Elgin, 183, 268, 288  Joe Burney’s Juicy Links, 146  Mustang Creek’s Bohemian Special, 184  Railhead’s Barbecued Bologna Sandwiches,  
  185
  sandwiches, 186  Vencil Mares’s Bohunk Sausage, 182Savell, Jeff, 51Schmidt, Don, 125Schmidt, Edgar, 125, 242Schmidt, Keith, 94, 125Schmidt, Rick, 94, 120, 125, 240, 244Schmidt Family Barbecue, 64, 266Schulenburg, 19, 272Scrub brushes, 57Sealy, 158, 278Sells, Nina, 125Servantes, Ernest, 81, 85, 219, 220, 221Shaker Bottle Pepper Sauce, 110Shepherd Drive Bar-B-Q, 194, 275Sierra, Robert, 88–89, 256Slaws  Black’s Simple Slaw, 186  Coleslaw, 129  Laura Novosad’s Confetti Slaw, 187  Sauerkraut Slaw, 129  Summer Slaw, 129  Texas-Size Coleslaw, 166Smith, Robert, 41
LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 302
Smithville, 277
Smitty’s Market, 37, 64, 119, 120, 125, 163, 242, 
266, 267
Smokehouse Cookers, 80Smokemaster, 50Smokin’ Triggers, 86Smolik, Michael, 104Smolik, William Benedict “Bill,” 104, 178, 273Smolik, William Harris, 104, 178Smolik’s Meat Market, 19, 104, 178, 273Snow’s BBQ, 8, 60, 271, 288Sons of Hermann Washington Lodge BBQ, 163, 
278
Southside Market, 126, 180, 181, 182, 183, 268, 
269, 288
Spatulas, 57Speaker, Mickey, 83Spears, Grady, 53Stafford, 31Stovetop smokers, 52Stubblefield, C. B., 143, 275Stubb’s Bar-B-Q, 143, 145, 275Summer Slaw, 129Sutherland, Anne, 224Sweet Potato Salad, German, 127
T
Taylor, 20, 71, 96, 118, 124, 181, 182, 187, 245, 
266, 267
Taylor Cafe, 42, 58, 180, 181, 182, 183, 241, 267Taylor International Barbecue Cook-Off, 70, 71, 
73, 267
Tejano barbecue traditions, 218–19, 224, 280, 286Terry, Rockney, 76, 78, 79, 196Texas hibachis, 49–50, 63Texas-Size Coleslaw, 166Thermometers, 58–59Tioga, 276Tomanetz, Tootsie, 61Tomatillos, 286Tomatoes  Barbecued Tomato Salsa, 112  Chipotle Ketchup, 111  Fried Green Tomatoes, 148  Pico de Gallo, 113  smoked, 285Tongs, 57
Tongue (Lengua), 224Tortillas  heating, 286  varieties of, 286Trigg, Johnny, 86Turkey  Barbecued Turkey, 124  Spatchcocked Turkey, 124Turnip Greens, Leon O’Neal’s, 154
 V
Valentine, Ann, 37Vaqueros, 172Vaughan, Stevie Ray, 194, 275Vaughn, Daniel, 42, 274, 279Vences, Lorenzo, 170Venison Sausage, Bryan Bracewell’s, 126Vera, Armando, 216Vera’s Backyard Bar-B-Que, 31, 216, 277Victoria, 26Virgie’s Bar-B-Que, 273
 W
Washington, 278Water pans, 55Waters, Billy, 88Water smokers, 49Webers, 49, 63Weimar, 59, 118Wells, J. K., 180White, Mr., 38Whitney, 31Whitworth, Wayne, 40–41Wilhelm, Floyd, 266Williams, Bill, 146, 147Wimberly, Tommy, 60, 74Wood, 59–60, 95, 141Wright, Will, 8
 X
XIT Rodeo and Reunion, 31, 35, 278–79
 Z
Zboril, Ryan, 41Zimmerhanzel’s BBQ, 277
Aged post oak is the favorite fuel 
of Central Texas pitmasters. LEGENDS OF TEXAS BARBECUE COOKBOOK 304
Liquid/Dry Measures
U.S.  Metric
¼ TEASPOON  1.25 MILLILITERS
½ TEASPOON  2.5 MILLILITERS1 TEASPOON  5 MILLILITERS1 TABLESPOON (3 TEASPOONS) 15 MILLILITERS1 FLUID OUNCE (2 TABLESPOONS) 30 MILLILITERS¼ CUP 60 MILLILITERS1⁄3 CUP  80 MILLILITERS
½ CUP 120 MILLILITERS1 CUP 240 MILLILITERS1 PINT (2 CUPS)  480 MILLILITERS1 QUART (4 CUPS; 32 OUNCES) 960 MILLILITERS1 GALLON (4 QUARTS)  3.84 LITERS1 OUNCE (BY WEIGHT) 28 GRAMS1 POUND 454 GRAMS2.2 POUNDS 1 KILOGRAM
Length
U.S.  Metric
1/8 INCH  3 MILLIMETERS
¼ INCH 6 MILLIMETERS½ INCH 12 MILLIMETERS1 INCH 2.5 CENTIMETERS
Oven T emperature
Fahrenheit Celsius Gas
250 120 ½275 140 1300 150 2325 160 3350 180 4375 190 5400 200 6425 220 7450 230 8475 240 9500 260 10Table of Equivalents
The exact equivalents in the following tables have been rounded for convenience.Get 
freebies,  
discounts,  
and more!Want More  
Chronicle Ebooks?
CliCk Here!