About the Authors
Charles T. Bourland spent 30 years at the NASA Johnson Space
Center developing food and food packages for spaceflight. He began
his work during the Apollo 12 program and continued through the
early years of the International Space Station. During his career at
NASA he was involved in the Apollo recovery ship food, Zero G
testing aboard the Zero G plane, quarantine food systems, and
planetary-based food systems for the Apollo program, Skylab, the
Apollo-Soyuz Test Program, the shuttle program, and the Interna-
tional Space Station.
Gregory L. Vogt is a veteran writer, science consultant, and developer
of science and technology materials for schools. A former science
teacher himself, Vogt has been director of an interactive science
museum, an education specialist with the Astronaut Office at the
NASA Johnson Space Center, and a consultant to museums, Chal-
lenger Learning Centers across the United States, and foreign space
agencies. Author of more than 80 trade books, Vogt’s latest book is a
newly published Springer title called Landscapes of Mars: A Visual
Tour. Currently, he works at the Center for Educational Outreach at
the Baylor College of Medicine in Texas.
xiThe Astronaut’s CookbookCHAPTER 1
Introduction
Half a century has passed since humans began the conquest
of space. Satellites, lunar landings, space stations, robot
rovers on Mars, solar and deep space observatories, and
probes to the edges of interstellar space have sent back a
flood of scientific informatio n. Space exploration has fun-
damentally changed our lives, from the classroom to the
marketplace to cyberspace.
Space scientists and mission planners will tell you that the
exploration of space is vital to our economic and environmental
survival and essential for our security in a dangerous world.
We’ve heard all this before, but what really convinces us that we
should go into space is that exploration is just plain exciting, and
much of that excitement is in the details ...
. What is it like to fly in space?. Why do you float?. Can you see any manmade objects from space?. How does it feel to travel 25 times the speed of sound?
Of course, there are the more mundane questions. How to
go to the bathroom in space is tops on the ‘‘enquiring minds
want to know’’ list. But after that, the next most popular
questions have to do with space food—how do you eat it,
what do you eat, how does food taste in space, how do you
cook it, and so on.
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_1,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 20103For many of us, especially those of us old enough to have been
around at the beginning of the space age, our concept of space food is
limited to Tang, food sticks, goop squeezed out of toothpaste tubes,
and freeze-dried ice cream. We remember old science fiction movies
where intrepid space explorers dined entirely on nutrient-packed
pills.
We also remember space experts speculating on the problems
the first astronauts might encounter in space. Continuous floating
inside a spaceship might cause astronauts to go insane from the stress
of the sensation of falling and waiting for the impact that never
comes. Astronauts could get fried by cosmic radiation. It might not
be possible to swallow food, making long space missions impossible.
Fortunately, none of those concerns proved true. Astronauts
delight in the floating effects and don’t go crazy in space. While in
Earth orbit, they are protected from radiation by the Van Allen
radiation belts, an early discovery of the Explorer satellite program.
Eating and swallowing turned out to be easy. This was proved during
the second manned spaceflight, in 1961, when Soviet cosmonaut
Gherman Titov became the first human to consume food in space. A
few months later, John Glenn, Jr., became the first American to
consume food in space. He ate applesauce dispensed from a squeeze
tube during his February 1962 Mercury flight. The experiences of
these early space explorers began what is, to this day, an ongoing
process of space food development.
Space food is a unique branch of food and nutrition science. It is
far more than just selecting tasty and healthy things to eat. Creating
space food is also about packaging, preparation, consumption, and
disposal. The primary driving force behind space food development is
weight and volume. The less the total payload carried by a rocket
weighs, including the weight of the astronauts, the less thrust the
rocket has to generate to reach space. In relation to volume, the less
space occupied by space supplies and tools needed by the crew, the
more room there is in the capsule for the crew.
Especially in the early days of spaceflight, everything placed on
board for liftoff was measured to the last fraction of an ounce and to
the last cubic inch. Space food was no exception. In Project Gemini,
the two astronauts jammed into the Gemini capsule were each allowed
1.7 lb of food per day. Because of the tightness, it was a Herculean task
to provision the Gemini 7 mission, where astronauts Frank Borman
and Jim Lovell remained in close quarters for 14 days in space.4 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKToday’s space shuttle crews are allowed 3.8 lb of food per
person. The difference in food weight between the two spacecraft
has to do with water content. The Gemini spacecraft was a tight fit.
Astronauts liked to joke, ‘‘You don’t climb into a space capsule. You
put it on!’’ John Young, one of two astronauts for the first Gemini
mission, likened the capsule to ‘‘sitting in a phone booth that was
lying on its side.’’ Because interior space was at a premium, food for
theGemini crew had to be as compact as possible. Most Gemini foods
were dried for launch and rehydrated in space from the spacecraft’s
water supply.
The space shuttle, flown for the first time 15 years after the last
Gemini mission, is a much larger spacecraft than the Gemini capsule.
The orbiter payload bay alone could hold three Gemini capsules end
to end. Though carrying up to eight astronauts at a time, the shuttle
crew cabin has plenty of room for food for all the crew for a two-week
mission. The great lifting power of the shuttle’s engine permitted
food scientists to leave some of the natural water in space shuttle
foods, which made them taste better and easier to prepare (Figure 1.1).
This is why daily rations for shuttle crews could weigh more than
Gemini rations.
FIGURE 1.1 Early Shuttle foods (NASA photograph).Introduction 5Space foods are individually packaged and stowed for easy
handling in space. All food is precooked or processed, so it requires
no refrigeration. It is either provided in a ready-to-eat form, or it can
be prepared simply by adding water or by heating.
Because of significant safety issues, astronauts do not really cook
food in space. A spacecraft is a closed environment. If an astronaut
burns a steak, he or she cannot open the window and let the smoke
out. Smoke contains toxins and is a serious health hazard in a closed
environment. If the smoke never gets out, it circulates until its soot
particles are deposited on every bit of interior surface, including the
insides of astronauts’ lungs.
Modern space menus also include a small amount of fresh fruits
and vegetables that are stowed in a fresh food locker. Without
refrigeration, carrots and celery must be eaten within the first two
days of the flight, or they will spoil. Other fresh items include
tortillas, which have an exceptiona l l yl o n gs h e l fl i f e .P r e f e r r e do v e r
sliced bread, tortillas do not easily break down into crumbs that
would clog air vent filters and get sucked up into astronauts’
nostrils.
Space Food Types
Space food falls into several categories, depending mostly upon how
astronauts prepare the food at meal time. In each category, making
food easy to handle is of prime importance. Astronaut time in orbit is
extremely valuable, and the less time involved in meal preparation
and clean up, the more time is available for accomplishing the goals of
the mission.
Rehydratable Food
Rehydratable items include both foods and beverages. Water is
removed during Earth processing, making it easy to stow the foods
and extend the shelf life. During flight, water is added back to
the food.
Regardless of how this sounds at first, the strategy of rehydrat-
ing food in space actually saves launch weight. How? Why should it
make a difference if you send up the food with its water or dry it first
and add the water back later?6 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKThe space shuttle orbiter, like the Apollo andGemini spacecraft
previously, generates electricity with fuel cells. Fuel cells combine
hydrogen and oxygen to make electricity. Water is a byproduct of the
generation process. Since you have to send up the hydrogen and
oxygen for power anyway, why not use fuel cell wastewater for
rehydrating food and drinking? This means it is unnecessary to
launch more than a starter supply of water. In no time, there is plenty
of water for food preparation!
Rehydratable foods are packaged in containers that have some
sort of port through which water can be added. A label indicates how
much water is to be added and whether the water should be hot or
cold. The crew member doing the ‘‘cooking’’ inserts the water using a
large gauge needle and then kneads the package for a moment to
spread the water around so it will make contact with all parts of the
food. If need be, the package can be placed in a convection oven to
raise its temperature beyond that provided by the hot water. When
the food item is ready, it is consumed directly from the package
(Figure 1.2).
Rehydratable foods include chicken consomme ´,c r e a mo f
mushroom soup, macaroni and cheese, chicken and rice casser-
oles, shrimp cocktail, and various breakfast foods such as
FIGURE 1.2 Shuttle rehydratable food (NASA photograph).Introduction 7scrambled eggs and cereals. Breakfast cereals are prepared by
packaging the cereal with nonfat dry milk and sugar. Water is
a d d e dt ot h ep a c k a g et or e h y d r a t et h em i l kj u s tb e f o r et h ec e r e a l
is eaten.
Fewer rehydratable foods are consumed on the International
Space Station (ISS) than on the space shuttle. The ISS generates
power with huge solar panels that make electricity directly from
sunlight. Water is not a byproduct, and consequently, all water is
brought to the ISS by the space shuttle or by the Russian Progress
resupply spacecraft. ISS astronauts must be careful with their water
use, and they stretch water supplies by recycling what they can.
Thus, there is little advantage in launching large quantities of rehy-
dratable foods.
Thermostabilized Food
Thermostabilized food refers to canned food, like your standard
canned peas, beans, or artichokes. The foods are heat-processed
to destroy deleterious microor ganisms and enzymes. Once made
specifically for spaceflight, indivi dual servings of thermostabilized
foods are now commercially avai lable in flexible pouches.
(Military MRE’s, or meals ready to eat, are staples of
spaceflight.)
Most of the fish, such as tuna and salmon, and fruit are carried
into space in thermostabilized cans or pouches. The cans open with
full-panel pull-out lids. Puddings are packaged in plastic cups with
pull-off foil lids. Most of the entrees are packaged in flexible retort
pouches, similar to MREs. These include products such as grilled
chicken, tomatoes, eggplant, beef with barbecue sauce, and ham.
After the pouches are heated in the onboard convection oven, the
food is cut open and eaten directly with conventional eating utensils.
The only space food utensil usually not found on Earth dining tables
is a scissors for opening the packages.
Intermediate Moisture Foods
Intermediate moisture foods are those preserved by restricting the
amount of water available for microbial growth, while retaining
sufficient water to give the food a soft texture. Examples are dried
peaches, pears, apricots, and beef. Except for cutting open the pack-
age, no preparation is needed. Intermediate moisture foods usually8 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKrange from 15 to 30% water, but the water is chemically bound with
the sugar or salt (Figure 1.3).
Natural Form Foods
Nuts, granola bars, M&MsTM, and cookies are classified as natural
form foods. They are packaged ready to eat in flexible pouches.
Irradiated Meat
Irradiated meat includes beefsteak, fajitas, breakfast sausage, and
smoked turkey. To insure long shelf life at the ambient temperatures
found inside the spacecraft, the meat is cooked, packaged in flexible
foil-laminated retort pouches, and sterilized by zapping it with
ionizing radiation (Figure 1.4).
Condiments
Condiments include commercially packaged individual pouches of
catsup, mustard, mayonnaise, taco sauce, and hot pepper sauce.
Polyethylene dropper bottles contain liquid pepper and liquid salt.
The pepper is suspended in oil and the salt is dissolved in water.
Drops are pressed directly onto the food.
FIGURE 1.3 Shuttle/ISS dried peaches (NASA photograph).Introduction 9Liquefying pepper and salt may seem strange, but the space-
flight environment requires it. Shake out dry pepper and salt on
Earth, and it falls onto your food. Doing the same thing in space
would create a ‘‘cloud’’ of seasoning, leading to a sneeze-fest and very
irritated eyes and nasal passages.
Although salt and pepper can boost the taste of various foods, it
is challenging to apply the liquids properly. Shaking salt and pepper
on Earth uniformly spreads out the particles. Pressing liquid salt and
pepper drops directly on foods in space often leads to ‘‘hot spots.’’
Space Food Menu Development
Developing space food menus is challenging. One of the obvious
objectives is to have food that the astronauts will eat. If not eaten, it
doesn’t matter how healthy and nutritious the food is. Good-tasting
food means happy astronauts. Bland or bad-tasting food means
leftovers. In space, leftovers are bad. Even if a spacecraft has a
refrigeration unit, storage space is very limited. Eventually, moldy
refrigerator science projects have to be disposed of. The trouble with
spaceflight is that you can’t pitch the garbage bag out the door. It has
to be held until it can be returned to Earth.
FIGURE 1.4 Irradiated Smoked Turkey (NASA photograph).10 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKStep one in food menu development is to create a potential list
of foods. Items on the list have to be available through current food
processing technologies. They also have to meet certain constraints
imposed by spacecraft, crew members, and the flight environment.
For example, a rehydratable food item has to be rehydratable even
with cold water in case the hot water supply fails. The food has to
have a long shelf life. It must have a good nutritional balance and be
available at a reasonable cost. Finally, it has to taste good. That means
more than just flavor. It has to have a pleasing texture and color. (The
psychology of food is important. Try dyeing a glass of milk green and
see how many people will drink it!)
After the food list is settled upon, dietitians extract specific
foods from the list to create breakfast, lunch, and dinner menus.
They also make recommendations for improvements and add items
for balance.
To ensure the food items will be accepted by flight crews, each is
tested in a food laboratory. Flight crews are invited to lunch at the lab.
With hungry astronauts sitting around a counter, food technicians
prepare samples of all the foods to be considered for flight. With
pencil and paper, the crew gives every item a score of from 1 to 9.
Unlike golf, a low score is bad. A score of 1 means ‘‘dislike extremely.’’
A 9 means ‘‘like extremely.’’ Crew members not only rate taste but
also texture and appearance. Foods must receive an overall score of 6
or better for further consideration.
Dietitians use the ratings to establish a preliminary standard
menu. Astronauts are free to pick the standard menu or create their
own menu from the approved choices open to them. A crew member
may also choose a menu he or she used on a previous space mission.
After menus are selected, crew members try them out during
the frequent training simulations. Ground-based trainers that look
identical to the real space shuttle orbiter are used for practicing every
step and action that will take place during the real mission.
Simulations can take days, and the crew has to eat. It is a great
time to test the menus and preparation techniques. Using the same
food during simulations is especially beneficial to the food laboratory
staff. Having the astronauts involved in choosing their menus sig-
nificantly reduces the complaints!
The final menus are submitted to a dietitian, who checks them
for compliance with established medical requirements. Calories are
one of the first items to be evaluated. The number of calories that areIntroduction 11required are based on the World Health Organization (WHO)
formula:
Men 18–30 years: 1.7(15.3 W*+679) = kcal/day required
30–60 years: 1.7(11.6 W+879) = kcal/day required
Women 18–30 years: 1.6(14.7 W+496) = kcal/day required
30–60 years: 1.6(8.7 W+879) = kcal/day required
*W = weight in kg.
Calories must be divided along the following guidelines:
Protein = 12–15%
Carbohydrates = 50–55%
Fat = 30–35%
NASA nutritional requirements are the same for both male
and female astronauts. This varies from the National Academy of
Sciences Dietary Reference In takes (DRI), which recommends
slight variations in diet based up on gender. Vitamin and mineral
requirements for astronauts are basically the same as the DRI’s,
with the exception of iron. Astronauts are limited to 10 mg/d
versus the DRI recommendation of 8 mg/d for men and 18 mg/d
for women. This is a response to one of the physiological changes
that occur in microgravity. Microg ravity causes a slight fluid shift
in the upper body. Body systems in terpret this shift as an excess of
blood and increase fluid excretion until a new balance is achieved,
resulting in a total blood volume decrease while in flight. Once
balance is achieved, red blood ce ll turnover slows. The need for
i r o n ,a no x i d a n t ,i sr e d u c e d .
Another significant physiologic change occurring in micrograv-
ity is increased bone loss. Weight-bearing bones lose between 1 and
2% of their calcium mass per month. This amounts to a total loss of
approximately 10% of their skeletal calcium in the weight-bearing
bones on a 5–6 month mission. The loss is due to the lack of stress
placed on the skeleton on a normal day on Earth. The bone loss in 1
year in space is equivalent to the loss a typical person would experi-
ence on Earth over a 10-year period starting at age 50. Bone loss
could be a ‘‘show stopper’’ for space missions to Mars that could last 2
or more years.12 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKOne would think the solution to this problem would be sim-
ple—increase calcium by giving astronauts calcium supplements dur-
ing flight. This seems like it would be a good idea, but it doesn’t work.
Without skeletal stress, bone-building cells do not capture the extra
calcium. Instead, the calcium is excreted through urine, increasing the
potential for kidney stones. NASA has studied the problem for many
years and found that exercise helps to slow calcium loss. Some drug
therapies show promise, but the problem is not yet completely solved.
What does a space menu generally look like? The one below
was typical of what the Apollo astronauts ate during their Moon
missions.
DAY 1
Meal A
Peaches (R)
Bacon Squares (IMB)
Cinnamon Bread Toast Cubes (DB)
Breakfast Drink (R)
Meal B
Corn Chowder (R)
Chicken Sandwiches (DB)
Coconut Cubes (DB)
Sugar Cookie Cubes (DB)
Cocoa (R)
Meal C
Beef and Gravy (R)
Brownies (IMB)
Chocolate Pudding (R)
Pineapple-Grapefruit Drink (R)
ABBREVIATION KEY:
R¼Rehydratable
DB¼Dry Bite
IMB¼Intermediate Moisture BiteIntroduction 13All foods were naturally dry or required the addition of water
prior to consumption. This made meal items very light in weight.
Each item in a meal was individually packaged in plastic pouches, and
all items in the meal were sealed in another pouch. Menus are
identified by the day of the mission. NASA recognized that mission
activities, such as landing a spacecraft on the lunar surface, would
require lots of attention. Meals could be taken whenever it was
convenient. Consequently, NASA labeled the meals A, B, and C
rather than breakfast, lunch, and dinner (Figure 1.5).
Eating in Microgravity
Children are continually admonished by their parents not to play
with their food. Playing with food, though, seems to be a universal
human trait. In space, food play literally takes on a new dimension.
Astronaut flight videos are filled with amusing sequences showing
large spherical drops of fruit punch floating in mid-air, swarms of
FIGURE 1.5 Gemini Food. Each meal component was over-wrapped in
foil. Apollo meals were also over-wrapped in foil (NASA photograph).14 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKM&MsTM, and Frisbee tortillas sailing across the cabin. You can’t
blame astronauts for bad manners in space. It’s too much fun!
How are astronauts able to do these things? The answer has to
do with a term that is not exactly a household word—microgravity.
Microgravity is NASA’s word for the floating effect that takes place
when a spacecraft is in Earth orbit. What exactly is microgravity?
If you watch astronaut videos, you will see that crew members
and food items float randomly through the spacecraft cabin. It is easy
to get the wrong idea that gravity has gone away. Gravity has not gone
away, and the crew and their food are not floating. Instead, they are
falling.
T h el a u n c ho fas p a c e c r a f ti sab a t t l eb e t w e e nt h et h r u s to ft h e
rocket and gravity. The amount of energy needed to reach space is
enormous. Fortunately, rocket engines can shut off when an orbit is
achieved. The spacecraft orbits Earth thousands of times without
any additional energy expended. Rather than the absence of gravity,
it is gravity that makes orbiting in space possible. If gravity were
absent, the spacecraft would tr avel straight out from Earth and
never return.
To see how gravity creates orbits, imagine pitching a baseball
horizontally from the top of mountain. To eliminate air resistance,
the imaginary mountain has to be tall enough to extend above the
atmosphere. Earth’s gravity will immediately ‘‘grab’’ onto the ball and
cause it arc downward and strike the mountain’s flank. Now let’s
imagine throwing a second pitch faster than before. It arcs, too, but
the arc is flatter because of its greater velocity. The ball lands far from
the mountain. Keep throwing more balls, increasing the velocity for
each throw. Now, Earth’s curvature comes into play. The balls not
only land successively further away from the foot of the mountain,
they begin curving over the horizon before landing. Eventually, one
ball makes it completely around Earth, comes back to the mountain-
top, and keeps going for another trip. This last ball is traveling so fast
that its arc matches the curvature of Earth, and its path is a circle.
The baseball is in orbit. The important thing to remember is that
while the baseball is orbiting, it is also falling.
When a rocket launches a spacecraft into Earth orbit, it starts
by traveling vertically but then pitches forward to travel horizontally.
As the rocket increases its velocity, it rises higher. When it climbs
above the atmosphere and reaches orbital velocity, the engines shut
down. At this point the spacecraft, like the baseball, is falling. Inside,Introduction 15the crew and their food are also falling. This creates the appearance of
floating—astronauts and food falling together. Falling is what micro-
gravity is all about.
Microgravity is an environment, created by falling, in which
gravity’s effects are greatly diminished. Notice that it is gravity’s
effects and not gravity itself that is diminished by falling.
In microgravity, strange things happen to food. On Earth,
gravity helps you measure and pour out a cup of water for cooking.
In microgravity, measuring cups do n’t work very well. If you were to
squirt water from a hose into the cup, you would need to do it very
slowly. Otherwise, the water w ould splatter and bounce out in a
cloud of hundreds of drops. Once t he cup was filled, you wouldn’t
be able to pour out the water. Liquids are sticky and cling. That’s
why you have to dry off with a towel after showering. To get the
water out of the measuring cup, you would have to shake it, but all
of the water would come out in one large drop. Surface tension
would pull the water into a shimme ring sphere that would gradually
dampen into a perfect sphere if it didn’t bump into something and
splatter (Figure 1.6).
FIGURE 1.6 Astronaut Joe Allen chasing an orange drink on Shuttle.
The drink has been squeezed from the package and forms a perfect sphere
floating in microgravity (NASA photograph).16 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKAnother problem with liquids in microgravity is that sedi-
mentation and buoyancy are absent. Heating water to boiling
creates gas bubbles, as it does on Earth, but in microgravity
bubbles do not rise to the top of the pot. They stay right where
they form. Toss a handful of beans into water and the beans stay at
the top. They don’t sink.
In short, microgravity create s challenges for food prepara-
tion. Then there are the challe nges of eating. Whether done on
purpose or not, it is easy for food to get away. Too vigorous
knife and fork action on a piece of meat can launch it across the
cabin.
The potential problems of preparing food and getting it to crew
members’ mouths were recognized early in the space program. Engi-
neers came to the rescue and designed a variety of systems to help
astronauts eat in space.
The different forms of space food and well-balanced menus are
only part of the space food story. How they are packaged and eaten is
just as important as what kinds of food are packaged.
Space food has to be specially packaged to ensure that the food
supply remains safe from contaminants. Space food packages endure
more severe environments in space, such as large pressure and
temperature changes. Packages must be made to allow for the addi-
tion of water, possible mixing, and consumption in microgravity
without contaminating the spacecraft environment. Some packages
must also withstand heating. In addition to all of these requirements,
the packaging material must meet strict NASA specifications with
regard to flammability and off-gassing. (Off-gassing is not a problem
on Earth. If a package has an unpleasant odor, open a window or turn
on the vent fan. In the recirculated atmosphere of a spacecraft, odors
are difficult to eliminate, and some can be become downright
nauseating.)
In the beginning, food system packaging consisted of tubes and
cubes: the dry bite cubes, mentioned earlier, and pureed foods in
toothpaste-like tubes. Experience in space led to major improve-
ments. Apollo astronauts were provided spoons to consume rehy-
drated foods from small plastic pouches (Figure 1.7). The menu
began to offer much more variety than the foods available in the
Gemini program. During the three manned missions of Skylab,
astronauts ate food from open containers with knife, fork, andIntroduction 17FIGURE 1.7 Apollo Spoonbowl package. The first space food package
designed for consumption with a spoon (NASA photograph).
FIGURE 1.8 Shuttle food packages, also used on the ISS (NASA photograph).18 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKspoon. If the food is wet, surface tension will keep the food in the
container as long as there are no strong opposing reactions to eject it.
Space shuttle and the ISS crews use several commercial
food containers, such as plastic pudding cans and retort pouches
(Figure 1.8). Shuttle and ISS beverage packages are modified from
Capri Sun1packages made from a foil laminate. A septum, or
membrane, allows water to be injected into the beverage package. A
large-gauge needle in a wall-mounted galley penetrates the septum.
After the right amount of hot or cold water is added and the needle is
withdrawn, the septum reseals itself to prevent leakage. A straw is
inserted through the septum for drinking. The straw is equipped
with a clamp to prevent the liquid from siphoning out when not in
use (Figure 1.9).
FIGURE 1.9 Shuttle/ISS beverage packages. The experimental beverage
holders were only used on a few missions until they were found
unnecessary (NASA photograph).Introduction 19When preparing food for flight, each rehydratable and food
package with bite-sized portions is flushed 3 times with nitrogen and
sealed at a vacuum of 21–29 in. of Hg. Foods are vacuum packaged to
reduce volume, maintain structure, improve rehydration, and reduce
oxygen.
Waste generation from space food packaging is always a con-
cern. Storage space is limited on the space shuttle, and all waste is
brought back to Earth. An early rigid shuttle food and beverage
package was discontinued when the crew sizes increased and waste
storage became a problem. Most of the current packages are flexible
and easily compressed with a manually operated lever-type
compactor.
Become a Space Cook
Each chapter in this book features recipes for spaceflight food.
Included are favorite recipes from former astronauts and former
NASA dietitians. Some of the ingredients could be difficult to locate
because they are mostly used in commercial product preparation or
have been discontinued. In this case you can use reasonable substi-
tutes. In some recipes, where the food is normally thermostabilized in
retort pouches, a special starch is added. This starch is to aid in the
processing and is not needed for home use. Cornstarch is a good
substitute. Other starches and special ingredients are listed for some
recipes, and substitutes are recommended. These recommendations
are the authors’ and not NASA’s and may not function as well as the
original.
Currently, high-dose irradiated products are not available to the
general public, and you will not find them in the supermarket.
NASA has special permission from the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration to use high-dose irradiated meats processed under an
approved procedure.
As you read the recipes, you will notice the names of some
culinary superstars. In 2006 Rachael Ray and Emeril Lagasse sepa-
rately came to the Johnson Space Center and assisted the Space Food
Development Laboratory with the development of more flavorful20 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKfoods. The recipes developed by these two superstar chefs are
included in this book with permission.
The spaceflight recipes in this book have been scaled down from
the original recipes. NASA’s food specifications are mostly based on
200 servings.
Space food science continually changes with mission
requirements, astronaut preferences, commercial availability of
the ingredients, and storage con siderations. The recipes in this
book reflect a certain point in the developing space food system.
A few space food recipes were not included due to lack of
e q u i p m e n ti nm o s tk i t c h e n st op r o c e s sc o m p l e xi t e m sa n dt h e
availability of special ingredients.
Many people (including some astronauts) wonder why they
cannot go to the local supermar ket and buy space food. Actu-
ally, some foods for space arepurchased from the supermarket,
and others, although they may be found at the supermarket, are
purchased directly from the manufacturer. Space food must
originate from the same lot for accountability and tracking
purposes, and this necessitate s purchasing from the manufac-
turer in many instances. At the end of each chapter is a short
list of some space foods that can be purchased from the
supermarket.
To Iodize or Not to Iodize, That Is the Question
All of NASA’s food specifications call for pure, non-iodized
sodium chloride (salt). There is a good scientific reason for
this. Gemini and Apollo spacecraft used chlorine for the space-
craft’s water purification system. Chlorine is corrosive, and it
created problems with the hardware. When Skylab came along,
iodine was chosen for the water supply. Storage tanks were
treated with iodine before consu mption. For the space shuttle,
a unique device, called the micro bial check valve, was designed.
Interestingly, it’s not a valve and does not check for microbes.
The microbial check valve is a column filled with an iodine resin
that imparts iodine to the water as it flows through. Since the
water already contains iodine, NASA does not want any moreIntroduction 21iodine, other than what is natu rally in the food, introduced
through the food system.
Iodine has both beneficial and harmful effects on human
health. Iodine is needed by your thyroid gland to produce
thyroid hormones. However, ex posure to unnecessarily high
levels of iodine can damage the thyroid. It can also affect
other parts of your body, such as skin, lung, and reproductive
organs.
Because terrestrial water supplies are not normally iodized, it is
not necessary to use non-iodized salt in these recipes.
SAUCY COMMENTS
It’s been widely reported that John Glenn, Jr., did not like
the food NASA sent with him on his Friendship 7 mission
in 1962. Glenn was the first American to orbit Earth. His
flight was shortened to four orbits of Earth because of a
suspected heat shield malfunction. The problem turned out to
be a faulty sensor. Upon Glenn’s return, the food story started
circulating and is still told today. The news report was faulty,
too. Glenn only had time to sample the applesauce, and he
thought it tasted pretty good.
AN ENGINEERED SANDWICH
Engineers should probably stay out of the kitchen. Apollo
meals featured bite-sized cubes of various foods. Following
the old candy slogan ‘ ‘Melts in your mouth, not in your hands,’ ’
the bite cubes could be plucked out of the bag and popped
into the mouth, leaving no mess. Take, for example, a chicken
sandwich. It would be cut it into cubes, and the cubes freeze dried.
Then it would be coated with gelatin to prevent crumbs. Once in your
mouth, saliva would rehydrate the sandwiches.
Bite cubes were a brilliant example of spaceflight engineering. Light
in weight, compact, easy to use, no mess, and ...yuck! (Figure 1.10).22 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKFIGURE 1.10 Apollo peanut cubes, made from peanut butter cookies
(NASA photoggraph).
The food had the proper taste. Sugar cookies cubes tasted like
sugar cookies, but they didn’t look like sugar cookies and they
didn’t have the sugar cookie texture. In the gastronomic world,
this was tantamount to heresy. Bite cubes were discontinued
after the Apollo program because many of the cubes were found
inside the returned space capsule uneaten.
NASA-SPEAK
Like every other NASA program, the Space Food Laboratory
has its jargon. Here are some of the ‘ ‘in’ ’ space food terms.
Freeze Dehydration. A process whereby prepared food is
frozen and dried. This is accomplished by reducing the pres-
sure (vacuum) and thus driving off the water. Freeze dehydration
preserves more of the nutrients and flavors than other forms
of drying.Introduction 23Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP). A process developed
by NASA, The Pillsbury Company, and the U.S. Army Natick
Research, Development, and Engineering Center. HACCP involves
monitoring and testing critical points in production to insure final
quality and is used worldwide by the food and many other
industries.
Intermediate Moisture. Dried fruits and meats.
Irradiated. Food that has been zapped with radiation to kill off
microorganisms.
Natural Form. ‘ ‘As is’’ food, such as nuts, cookies, and the ever-
present M&Ms.
Rehydration. Adding water to the dry food or beverage before
consumption.
Retort Pouch. A foil and plastic pouch containing a pre-prepared
entre´e. If desired, the pouch can be heated before opening. (These
are the classic MREs—meals ready to eat that were first developed
for the military.)
Spoonbowl Package. A plastic pouch that permitted the addition of
water through a valve and a top that was cut open and the contents
consumed with normal utensils.
Thermostabilization. A process of food preservation that heats the
food in a closed container to destroy all harmful microorganisms
and enzymes. Canning is the non-technical term.
WORST SPACE FOOD?
Many people ask the NASA food staff, ‘ ‘What is the most
disliked food?’ ’ This is a trick question. The answer is none.
If a potential food item is disliked by most of the astronauts, it
doesn’t get flown on space missions!24 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMAKE YOUR OWN SPACE FOOD
Many educators ask for instr uctions on how to make space
food. This book provides the answers. Since some of the
processing requires equipment and procedures not com-
mon to normal kitchens, it is not possible to create and
package food that could actually be flown into space. However,
fairly authentic-looking replicas can be made if you have a home
vacuum sealer. Pick out dry foods or intermediate moisture foods
and seal them in packages. Add a contents label and a small
Velcro hook patch and the package is ready. Drink packages can
be made from dry drink mixes. Measure out the amount needed
for one serving and write the amount of water to be added. You
w i l lh a v et os q u i r tt h ew a t e ri n t ot h ep a c k a g e .I nt h i sc a s e ,az i p -
l o c k i n gf o o ds t o r a g eb a gm i g h tb eb e s t .K n e a dt h ew a t e ra n dd r y
mix to encourage proper dissolving. Later, punch the package
with a plastic straw cut at an angle and drink. If your food item
requires milk, use powdered milk and calculate how much water
it will need for rehydration.
Bagging It
Because spacecraft are closed environments, there are many safety
restrictions for what can be brought on board. All materials intro-
duced into the spacecraft, including ink in pens and on paper, paper
itself, glues, dyes, and labels are subjected to off-gas testing. Materials
under consideration for use in space are placed in a low-temperature
oven for several hours and monitored for gases produced (bad smells,
irritating or toxic fumes, etc.). Materials are even burned to check
their flammability and the production of soot.
The cabin atmosphere for the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo
missions was pure oxygen under reduced pressure. However, during
a pre-flight simulation for Apollo 1, the oxygen atmosphere was at sea
level pressure, and materials normally not known for flammability
ignited, resulting in the tragic loss of a flight crew. Since then, NASA
safety people have paid special attention to potential hazards of
everything carried into space. That includes the packages used forIntroduction 25food. Not only do they have to pass off-gassing and flammability
tests, they also have to be sturdy enough to hold up under reduced
cabin pressure. The space shuttle atmosphere is kept at sea level
pressure, with normal 78% nitrogen/20% oxygen content. This
greatly lowers onboard fire danger. However, the cabin pressure is
depressed to 10 psi for several hours to assist astronauts in adjusting
to lower pressures as they prepare to go on space walks. This reduces
the nitrogen content in their bloodstreams and shortens the time
they need to spend in the airlock before going out. Food packages
have to be able to withstand this pressure drop without their seals
breaking. NASA repackages most space foods in approved packages
with known off-gassing and barrier properties.26 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCHAPTER 2
Breakfast Foods
We’ve all heard that breakfast is the most important meal of the
day. That may be, but for the scientists at the Space Food
Laboratory, breakfast is also the most challenging meal of the
day. Most typical American breakfast foods, such as eggs over
easy, pancakes, bacon, sausage, toast, biscuits and gravy, and
various other off-the-grill foods, aren’t very good after they have
been dehydrated and stored on a shelf for several months.
Breakfast foods not being conducive to dehydration is not
the only challenge the food lab folks face. It’s also the astronauts.
Like the rest of us, when it comes to breakfast, astronauts have
many preferences. Some only want black coffee while others
demand full-course ‘‘lumberjack’’ breakfasts drowned in syrup.
Scrambled eggs became one of the first breakfast foods of
the space program. Cooked, frozen, and freeze dried, the eggs
look a bit like tiny bits of yellow Styrofoam pellets. However,
when rehydrated, they look, taste, and almost have the texture
of fresh scrambled eggs.
One would think scrambled eggs in space would please
everybody. Not so! Some astronauts didn’t even want to taste
them. Their appearance reminded flight crews, many who were
still active members of one or another military branch, of the
dreaded dehydrated eggs served on base. Those that did try
them reported they were messy to eat in microgravity. Little egg
bits tended to escape meal packages and drift about until they
clung to walls, floors, ceilings, hair, and air vents. In spite of
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_2,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 201029their messiness, freeze-dried scrambled eggs have been a space break-
fast food staple for decades.
With eggs, astronauts need bacon. Unfortunately, there just
isn’t a good way to prepare bacon in space. Look at what happens to a
kitchen range when frying up a rasher or two. The answer? Bacon
bars! Bacon bars were used in the Gemini, Apollo, and Skylab pro-
grams. They were made by frying bacon, breaking it into pieces, and
compressing it into bars. Bacon bars tasted like bacon, but they
lacked the crispy texture.
Breakfast rolls were an immediate success in the labs with flight
crews. Just about everybody seemed to like them. You could warm
them if you wanted, but otherwise, there was no effort involved other
than cutting open the package. Of course, there was a hitch. A typical
breakfast roll would stay fresh in the package for seven days—not
nearly long enough. The rolls had to be purchased, tested, packaged,
and shipped to the Kennedy Space Center weeks ahead of the
scheduled liftoff. Considering the complexity of launching a rocket,
there was always the possibility of delay. That meant that most of the
breakfast rolls that ended up in space were well beyond stale by the
time they were consumed.
When the space shuttle came along, a fresh food locker for
semi-perishable food was added to the food system. The locker could
be stowed at L minus 1 (one day before launch) and swapped with a
fresh locker if there was a launch delay. To make the rolls last longer,
irradiated rolls were used for the first eight space shuttle missions.
These were then replaced thanks to the packaged cake and bread
company Sara Lee. Sara Lee began marketing vending machine
cinnamon rolls. The flavor of the rolls had to hold up for weeks
and weeks in the less than ideal storage environment of vending
machines. The new rolls turned out to be perfect for NASA’s unique
shelf life requirements.
Now, toast was another matter entirely. The options were quite
limited. Toast becomes stale very quickly, and the taste goes south.
It’s also quite crumbly, even fresh from a toaster. Crumbs make a
mess and, in microgravity, easily enter nasal passages. For Gemini and
Apollo missions, single bite toasted cubes were created. Nice try!
They were more like croutons than toast and were just not popular
with the astronauts.
Fresh fruits, another popular breakfast item, create their own
problems for space meals. Fruit is carried on the shuttle and the Russian30 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKsupply ship Progress for delivery to the ISS. The quantity of fruit is
limited, though, because refrigerat ion is not available on either of these
vehicles. Perhaps future space vehicles will have room for an enriched
carbon dioxide atmosphere refrigera tor system. On Earth, these systems
greatly extend fruit shelf life. For the present, only as much fruit as can
be consumed in a few days is carried in space (Figure 2.1)
What does that leave us? Cold cereals, the ‘‘breakfast of cham-
pions,’’ work pretty well in space. Of course, there are a few choices—
with or without sugar and with or without milk. Unfortunately, the
milk is powdered. Fresh milk is heavy and doesn’t keep.
Just back from space, many astronauts eagerly reach for a cold
glass of fresh milk (with cookies, of course). There have been numer-
ous requests to have a tall glass of cold milk in space. NASA and a
number of dairy companies worked on the problem, but success has
been minimal. Powdered milks either have storage, rehydration, or
flavor problems. The best effort to date is commercially produced
non-fat-dry milk. It’s OK, but it doesn’t taste like fresh milk. The ISS
FIGURE 2.1 Shuttle fresh food locker tray with celery, carrots, bananas, and Danish
rolls. Note the netting used to hold the food in place in microgravity (NASA
photograph).Breakfast Foods 31doesn’t have a system to provide cold water for milk rehydration, and
the ambient temperature water that has to be used compromises the
milk’s taste.
That being said, space cereal, milk, and sugar are combined in a
rehydratable package. The astronaut injects the correct amount of
water and mixes the contents. The cereal has to be eaten immediately,
or the contents become soggy. Thankfully, the moisture in a ‘‘bowl’’ of
space cereal provides a bit of stickiness that keeps the cereal from
slurping out as it being spooned.
SPACE FOOD STICKS
The Pillsbury Company developed a rod-shaped ‘ ‘food stick’’
to be used inside the Apollo space suit. The idea was that it
could be inserted through a port in the helmet and into the
mouth. The ‘‘food stick’ ’ was an early attempt to develop a
balanced/complete food for emergency use. This eating concept
was never fully developed or approved for suit use because the
helmet port could not withstand the pressure differentials. NASA
did use the space sticks as part of the Apollo menu and labeled it
‘ ‘caramel candy.’ ’ Pillsbury marketed the item as ‘ ‘space food
sticks’’ and later called them ‘ ‘nutrition sticks,’’ but neither strategy
increased their sales enough to meet expectations.
WHAT IS THE PROGRESS CARGO SHIP?
The Progress cargo ship is an unpiloted Russian spacecraft
that is launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakh-
stan, on a Soyuz rocket. Among its many duties, such as
refueling the ISS’s attitude control rockets, it hauls pressur-
ized cargo such as oxygen, food, water, and personal items. A
Progress spacecraft can carry as much as 7,000 lb of cargo into
orbit. As the ISS crew empties a Progress of fresh supplies, it is
refilled with trash. Finally, it undocks and is sent on its way to burn
up in the atmosphere over the Pacific Ocean.32 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKIn the recipes that follow, the SS stands for ‘‘space shuttle/space
station.’’
SS SCRAMBLED EGGS
5 Grade A large eggs
Egg white from 1 Grade A large egg
1/3 cup 2% milk
1 tbsp nonfat dry milk
2 tsp dried cheddar cheese blend
(DairiConcepts)*1 tsp dehydrated cheese seasoning
(DairiConcepts)*
1/4 tsp salt
1 tbsp unsalted butter
*These are commercial products; you may substitute your
favorite cheese powder or grated cheese. Cheese powder is
made commercially by spray drying a cheese slurry, using much
the same process as when making powdered milk. You may not
be able to get these at a local store, but products like them are
available on the Internet.
1. Mix whole eggs and egg whites together using a whisk.
2. Combine the milk and nonfat dry milk.
3. Blend the two cheese powders and salt.
4. Using a blender, thoroughly blend the milk mixture and the
dry ingredients.
5. Blend milk and cheese mixture with eggs in a saucepan and
cook to a semi-coagulated state.
6. Melt butter and blend into the precooked mixture and
continue cooking until fully coagulated.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA freeze dries the eggs, adds water back, and freeze
dries them a second time. This is necessary in order for the eggs
to rehydrate when water is added in the space food package. The
basic scrambled egg formulation has been around since the
Apollo days. Originally a commercial company made them for
NASA. When it went out of business the company gave the
‘ ‘secret of the eggs’’ to NASA to use for space shuttle flights. The
‘ ‘secret’ ’ was the second freeze drying. Otherwise, it takes boiling
water to rehydrate them, and boiling water is not available on
NASA spacecraft.Breakfast Foods 33Variations on the above recipe include:
SS MEXICON SCRAMBLED EGGS
1. Prepare a batch of SS Scrambled Eggs (see recipe above).
2. Add minced fresh green onions, red peppers, and cilantro.
NASA makes its Mexican Scrambled Eggs by adding dehydrated
minced green onions, red pepper granules, and freeze-dried
cilantro to the freeze-dried eggs to make Mexican scrambled
eggs.
SS SEASONED SCRAMBLED EGGS
1. Prepare a batch of SS Scrambled Eggs (see recipe above).
2. Stir in Cugino’s Veggie Weggie DipzTMmix.
NASA adds the dip mix to the freeze-dried scrambled eggs. If
y o uc a n ’ tf i n dt h eC u g i n o ’ sV e g g i eW e g g i eD i p zTMmix, try
another soup and dip mix, such as Knorr’sTM. You may have to try
several batches to find the correct amount of the soup and dip
mix to add to your eggs. That’s w hat the NASA Food Laboratory
people do.34 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKBACON BARS
1 lb uncooked bacon
1. Fry the bacon until golden brown.
2. Place the warm bacon into a hamburger press.
3. Exert 3,000 lb of pressure for 10 s.
4. Remove the compressed bacon and let cool.
Yield: More than you would want.
After sampling the bar—so that you could say that you tried it—
give the rest to the family dog. One nibble, and Fido will prance
about the house barking (Translation: ‘‘It’s BACON!’’).
BREAKFAST CEREAL
1 cup of your favorite cold cereal*
1/3 cup of powdered milk
2 tsp of sugar or 1 packet artificial
sweetener1/2 cup cold water
1 resealable plastic sandwich bag
*Frosted cereals stay crisper longer than unfrosted cereals.
1. Put all the ingredients in the bag.
2. When ready to eat, add water and reseal the bag.
3. Shake the bag to dissolve the milk and sugar.
4. Open the bag and eat immediately with a spoon.
5. Write a note to yourself to never do that again unless you
become an astronaut.
Yield: 1 servingBreakfast Foods 35What You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
These breakfast foods eaten by astronauts may be found in the local
supermarket. The NASA Food Laboratory staff repackages them in
single-serving-sizes in rehydratable pouches.
Multi-Bran ChexTMby General Mills
Kelloggs Frosted Corn FlakesTM
Granola or Granola with RaisinsTMby Heartland Brands
Mountain House Granola with Blueberries and MilkTMby
Oregon Freeze Dry
Instant White Hominy GritsTMby Quaker Oats 30 g plus
Butter BudsTM
Instant Oatmeal with Maple and Brown SugarTMby Quaker
Oats
Instant Oatmeal with Raisins and SpiceTMby Quaker Oats
Rice KrispiesTMor Frosted Rice KrispiesTMby Kelloggs
Fully Cooked Original Pork Sausage PattieTMby Jimmy Dean.
These have to be freeze-dried before repackaging.36 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCHAPTER 3
Snacks
and Appetizers
Astronauts are no different than the rest of us. Given a chance,
they will graze all day. With hundreds of astronauts and sup-
port personnel in the Astronaut Office at NASA’s Johnson
Space Center, someone is always having a birthday or special
event. Astronauts are among the world’s most efficient hunters
of cake and other snack foods. That shouldn’t be surprising. An
astronaut’s day is packed with meetings, training exercises,
proficiency flights in training jets, mission simulations, medical
tests, and maintaining physical fitness. There is rarely time to sit
down and enjoy meals.
In space, schedules are even more hectic. Every moment of
every day is planned and plotted on detailed spreadsheets.
Meals are scheduled, but they often go by quickly in order to
get back to an experiment, vehicle monitoring, Earth observa-
tions, or exercise. For snacks in space, it’s grab and go.
As with all space food, convenience and utility are para-
mount. Fortunately, many appetizers and snack foods can be
provided to crews nearly straight from the supermarket. These
foods are repacked in vacuum-sealed small, tight-fitting plastic
bags. All it takes to get into them is a scissors. When it comes to
dining on space food, scissors are just as common to flight crews
as knives, forks, and spoons are to Earth-bound people. As
expected, the bags have small patches of VelcroTMhooks to
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_3,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 201039temporarily stick them to corresponding patches of Velcro wool
placed throughout the spacecraft cabin. Without the Velcro, snack
packs are free to roam the interior of spacecraft and may be harvested
by other snacking crew members or stuck on the grills of return air
vents (Figure 3.1)
Satisfying Hungry Skylab Astronauts
The tradition of space snacks goes back to the early days of human
spaceflight. Following the Apollo Moon missions, the third stage of
one of the remaining Saturn V rockets was converted into an orbital
laboratory called Skylab. It was launched into space in 1973, and
eventually three crews of three astronauts each spent a total of more
than 171 days on board. At the time, the third crew of Skylab held the
record for the number of days in space—84.
With NASA having little long-term experience in spaceflight,
theSkylab food system was tightly constrained to meet very specific
metabolic requirements. A nutrition experiment was established to
gather the data needed for future space missions such as trips to Mars
and permanent bases on the Moon. The requirements included
FIGURE 3.1 Astronaut Robert Cabana displays some M & Ms onboard
Shuttle mission STS-88 (NASA photograph).40 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKspecific levels of several minerals and proteins that had to be main-
tained each day.
Some foods were designed to be non-contributors to the Skylab
mineral and protein balance. That’s NASA-speak for snacks. Skylab
butter cookies were one of the principal non-contributors and could be
eaten without jeopardizing the metabolic experiment. The Skylab Butter
Cookies became sought-after items and were often used as currency for
exchanges among the crew. ‘‘I’ll see your two cookies and raise you ...’’
Skylab Butter Cookies were baked at the Johnson Space Center
by Food Laboratory personnel. On one particular Saturday, when the
center cafeteria was closed, Food Lab staff used the kitchen to prepare
the cookies. A canning machine was brought in, and a cookie
production line was created. In the end, a large stack of Skylab Butter
Cookies in squat aluminum cans with pull-back lids was assembled.
Cookies have since become a spaceflight tradition. Flight crews
arrive at the Kennedy Space Center a few days in advance of launch
day and are greeted with fresh baked cookies in the Operations and
Services Building, where the crew quarters and dining facilities are
located. Food personnel schedule their arrival ahead of the crew and
begin baking cookies just before the crew arrives. During the baking,
the building is saturated with the aroma of fresh-baked cookies and
not only astronauts get to partake. Handfuls of cookies are also
consumed by the backup crew and by a couple dozen of the local
support staff. The food personnel spend many hours baking cookies
to keep up with the demand and build up a supply for the next few
days. Almost all astronauts eat the cookies, even though a few have
complained ‘‘You shouldn’t be baking these. They’re not healthy,’’ as
they munched on a cookie.
On Earth, cookies can be large, but in space, size matters. Actually,
it’s crumbs that matter. Space vehicl es are self-contained environments.
The quality of the environment is dependent upon minimizing con-
taminants. Although the air is filtered and carbon dioxide is scrubbed,
the atmosphere gets recycled again and again. Crumbs can gum up the
works. Foods that produce a lot of crumbs can be a major problem and a
big contributor to ‘‘pollution’’ of the air quality during a mission. For this
reason, bite-sized cookies and crackers that can be placed in the mouth
all at once are preferred to snacks that take several bites to consume.
Several regular-size cookies such as pecan ‘‘sandies’’ were removed from
the menu on early shuttle missions when astronauts complained that
they generated too many crumbs.Snacks and Appetizers 41SPACEWALKING SNACKS
Imagine trying to eat and drink without the use of your arms
and hands. That is what astronauts do when inside their
spacesuit. During both Apollo and space shuttle spacewalks,
astronauts consumed food bars while working in their
spacesuits. The food was called the In-suit food bar, and it fit into
a sock-like device mounted just inside the neck ring that connects
to the helmet (Figure 3.2). Astronauts ate the bar by bending the
head forward and biting into it, pulling it out and biting off a piece.
This turned out to be unpopular among the astronauts because the
bar would rub against the chin and leave sticky goo that could not
be cleaned off until the astronaut removed the suit hours later.
When NASA discovered that most In-suit bars were being con-
sumed by the astronauts while still in the airlock prior to going
into space, they discontinued them.
FIGURE 3.2 Neck ring of the Apollo space suit showing the In-suit food
bar and the drink device (NASA photograph).42 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKTHE MOST POPULAR SPACE SNACK/APPETIZEZR
Shrimp cocktail has long been rated by astronauts as the
most popular space food. A study in the 1980s confirmed this
for the shuttle by tabulating the number of times it appeared
on the menus of astronauts. Shrimp cocktail was chosen
more frequently than any other space food. Astronaut Story Mus-
grave liked his shrimp cocktail so much that he requested it for
every meal: breakfast, lunch, and dinner!
Shrimp cocktail has been on NASA space menus since Apollo
days. Shrimp is an excellent food to demonstrate the freeze dehy-
dration technology. Many foods have significant texture loss when
freeze dried. However, when handled properly, shrimp retains
most of its texture, and when water is added back it is difficult to
tell that the shrimp has been freeze dried.
However, procuring the shrimp and the cocktail sauce has
been a problem for NASA. NASA started out buying the freeze-
dried shrimp from freeze-drying companies such as Oregon
Freeze Dry. Often times this shrimp would not pass the strict
microbiological tests required for space food, and at other times
it was not available. As a backup, NASA developed a procedure for
procuring fresh shrimp and processing them in-house. The secret
to passing the microbiological tests was to peel and de-vein the
shrimp prior to cooking. The peeling and de-veining after the
shrimp were cooked apparently contaminated them with extra
microorganisms.
The shrimp cocktail sauce had similar problems. Oregon
Freeze Dry made the sauce for commercial sales at one time
and then later on made it especially for NASA. It was a pro-
prietary formula, and NASA was never able to duplicate it.
When it was not available from Oregon Freeze Dry, a backup
source with added horseradish and red pepper was used
(Figure 3.3).Snacks and Appetizers 43CHARLES BOURLAND’S SPACE FOOD DIARY
I was there to meet the first Skylab flight crew after their
recovery from the ocean by the U.S.S. Ticonderoga. After the
longest spaceflight to date, there was great scientific interest
in the condition of the crew. As a part of the JSC Food
Laboratory, I was there to ensure that the metabolic experiment
continued until all medical data had been mined from the crew.
That meant that Skylab astronauts would have to follow the same
metabolic protocol they started 3 weeks before the mission and
continue it for 2 weeks after landing. It consisted of providing the
astronauts with the same food they had been eating in-flight.
FIGURE 3.3 Freeze dried shrimp cocktail with powdered sauce. The current
Shuttle flexible package on the left and the original rigid Shuttle rehydratable
package on the right (NASA photograph).44 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKJoe Kerwin, a medical doctor and astronaut on the Skylab crew
was nauseated when he was transferred from the recovery heli-
copter to the deck of the Ticonderoga. Joe had been fine during
liftoff and 28 days in space onboard Skylab. However, reentry and
splashdown in the ocean was something else. Stuffed into a bulky
Apollo spacesuit and bobbing around in the ocean in a tight Apollo
capsule would tax the strongest stomach.
The medical staff gave Joe some kind of liquid to drink as part
of an experiment. He drank it, but his stomach had had enough
abuse. The medical guy dropped to the deck and soaked up the
emesis with a sponge so that it could be determined how much of
the liquid Joe had actually consumed. Talk about unpleasant jobs!
FIGURE 3.4 One day Skylab post flight menu for Astronaut Joe Kerwin
with some butter cookies.Snacks and Appetizers 45A little while later, Joe was feeling better. He asked me to give
him a butter cookie. Prepared for any eventuality, I had one ready.
Joe took a bite and then just released it. The cookie fell to the deck
and broke. Joe said ‘ ‘I guess I will have to get used to gravity again’’
(Figure 3.4).
SKYLAB BUTTER COOKIES
(served natural form)
6 tbsp unsalted butter
4 tbsp sugar
4½ tbsp maltodextrin*1¼ tsp vanilla
1 cup plus 2 tbsp cake flour
*NASA used Maltrin 100 from the Grain Processing Co.; how-
ever, it is only available in 100-lb packages. Maltodextrin may be
purchased in health food stores and is usually called complex
carbohydrate powder. It may also be substituted for with sugar.
1. Allow butter to come to room temperature. Using a mixer,
cream the butter with the sugar and the maltodextrin.
2. Sift the remaining ingredients together and stir them into
the mix.
3. Roll into small balls about 3/4 in. in diameter. Place on
baking sheet and flatten.
4. Bake 15 minutes at 325 8F. Let cool.
Yield: 18 cookies46 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS SHRIMP COCKTAIL
Shrimp:
4 lb Individually Quick Frozen large (approx. 25–35 per pound)
peeled and de-veined shrimp or 4 lb fresh large peeled, de-
headed and de-veined Gulf shrimp
Shrimp Boil Mixture:
1 bag dry crab boil
4 tbsp bottled lemon juice
1 tbsp dehydrated onion flakes
4 tsp Tabasco sauce1 tbsp celery salt
1 tbsp garlic powder
1 tsp salt
1. Rinse shrimp thoroughly with water and soak for 10 minutes
in 1.5% salt solution (3 tbsp of salt per gallon of water).
2. Drain the shrimp and heat 1 gal of water.
3. Add the shrimp boil mixture to 1 gal of water and heat to
boiling.
4. Add shrimp to the boiling mixture and boil for 6–8 minutes.
Drain immediately and chill with ice or place in refrigerator.
5. Serve chilled.
Since dried shrimp cocktail sauce is usually not available on the
retail level the best substitute is a store-bought sauce. Add some
extra horseradish to give the space shrimp cocktail a real kick.
Yield: 16 servings
Note: For space NASA freeze dries the shrimp and adds dried
cocktail sauce to the shrimp at the time of packaging. In orbit,
astronauts merely add chilled water to the package and dissolve
the sauce by kneading the package.Snacks and Appetizers 47Meet the Astronaut: Jan Davis, STS-47, STS-60,
STS-85
Dr. Davis received undergraduate degrees in Applied Biology
from Georgia Institute of Technology and in Mechanical
Engineering from Auburn University in 1975 and 1977,
respectively. She got her Master of Science degree in 1983
and a doctorate in Mechanical Engineering from the Uni-
versity of Alabama in Huntsville in 1985. Dr. Davis became
an astronaut in June 1987. A veteran of three spaceflights,
she has logged over 673 hours in space. She flew as a mission
specialist in 1992 and 1994 and was the payload commander
in 1997. Dr. Davis has the distinct honor of having her flight
picture on the cover of the NASA book Nutrition in Space-
flight and Weightless Models (CRC 2000).JAN DAVIS’S HOT CLAM-CHEESE DIP
2 small onions, chopped
1 4-oz can chopped green chilies
6 tbsp butter
2 10½ oz cans minced clams,
drained
1 lb processed cheese, cut into
cubes8 tbsp catsup
2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 tbsp sherry or milk
½ tsp cayenne pepper
1. Saute ´onions and chilies in butter.
2. Add remaining ingredients. Cook until cheese melts.
3. Serve hot with dipping-style corn chips.
Yield: 8 servings48 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMeet the Astronaut: Leroy Chiao, STS-65, STS-72,
STS-92, and Expedition 10 (6½ months aboard
ISS)
Dr. Chiao received a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical
Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley, in
1983, and a Master of Science degree and a doctorate in
Chemical Engineering from the University of California,
Santa Barbara, in 1985 and 1987, respectively. He was
selected by NASA in January 1990 and became an astronaut
in July 1991. A veteran of four spaceflights, he flew as a
Mission Specialist on STS-65 (July 8–23, 1994), STS-72
(January 11–20, 1996) and STS-92 (October 11–24, 2000),
and was the Commander and NASA Science Officer on
Expedition-10 (October 13–April 24, 2005). Dr. Chiao has
logged a total of 229 days, 7 hours, 38 minutes and 5 seconds
in space, including 36 hours and 7 minutes of EVA time in
six spacewalks.LEROY CHIAO’S CHINESE COLD PEANUT NOODLES
1/2 lb dry vermicelli noodles
2 cloves garlic, chopped
2 tbsp peanut butter
1 tsp sesame oilChinese hot (spicy) oil to taste
1/4 cup peanuts, diced
1/4 cup chopped green onions
(scallions)
1. Boil noodles to desired consistency, then drain and rinse
with cold water.
2. Mix noodles with garlic, peanut butter, sesame oil, and spicy
oil to taste.
3. Sprinkle top with diced peanuts a nd green onions. Serve chilled.
Yield: 4 servingsSnacks and Appetizers 49Meet the Astronaut: Bill Nelson, STS-61C
Bill Nelson, the husband of Grace Nelson, is a graduate of
Yale University and the University of Virginia Law School.
In 1972, he was elected to the Florida legislature, where he
served for 6 years until he was elected to Congress in 1978.
He was the second U.S. senator to go into space (Senator
Jake Garn was the first). STS-61C Columbia (January
12–18, 1986) launched from the Kennedy Space Center,
Florida, and returned to a night landing at Edwards Air
Force Base in California. During the six-day flight the seven-
man crew aboard Columbia deployed the SATCOM KU
satellite and conducted experiments in astrophysics and
materials processing. The space experience gave Senator
Nelson, who has always been an advocate of space, a better
appreciation of what is involved in sending people into space.GRACE NELSON’S HOT CRAB DIP
1 lb fresh or canned Florida crab
meat
1 cup mayonnaise1 cup Parmesan cheese
Toast points
1. Mix ingredients, then warm in a double boiler.
2. Serve toast points on the side.
3. Serve in a warm chafing dish.50 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKIN-SUIT FOOD BAR
Fruit leather*
WaterWax paper
Q-tip
*The brand known as Fruit Roll-upsTMare a type of fruit leather. If
you happen to have a food dehydrater, you should follow the
instructions that came with it for making your own fruit leather.
1. Spread out and stack layers of fruit leather to ¼ in. depth.
2. Using a Q-tip, slightly dampen the leather between layers.
3. Cover the layers with wax paper and place a weight on the
leather for a couple of hours. A brick or a heavy skillet
will do.
4. Remove the wax paper and cut into strips 1 in. wide by 9 in.
long.
Note: Astronaut In-Suit Bars were covered with edible film, but
since this is not readily available you can coat yours with wax
paper and remove before consuming. NASA started out making
several flavors but later on combined all the flavors into one
multi-flavor bar to reduce inventory requirements.
What You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
Snacks and appetizers are among the easiest of space foods to obtain
on Earth. Just go to the supermarket and check the cracker, nut,
cereal, and cookie aisles to find a wide selection. Here are some of the
choices.
Applesauce in small disposable containers (SOPACKO pro-
duces carbohydrate-enhanced applesauce in retort pouches)
Chessmen Butter CookiesTMby Pepperidge Farms
Chocolate-coated AlmondsTMby Masterfoods
M&M Plain Chocolate CandiesTMby Masterfoods
M&M Chocolate PeanutsTMby Masterfoods
Almonds, roasted and salted macadamia nuts, and toasted and
salted cashewsSnacks and Appetizers 51Cheddar Cheese spread-SqueezersTM(individual serving pack-
ets are made by Portion Pac Inc.)
Toasted wheat crackers
Dried apricots
Fruit cocktail in cans
Granola bars
Canned peaches
Peanut Butter-SqueezersTM(creamy peanut butter in individual
packets are produced by Portion Pac, Inc.)
Dry roasted peanuts
Lorna DooneTMshortbread cookies by Kraft52 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCHAPTER 4
Soups and
Salads
A meal is not a meal unless there’s soup. That’s the Russian
space program’s concept for space lunches and dinners. NASA has
always included a few soups on the m enu to provide space crews with
some extra menu variety. However, when NASA’s food specialists
began working with the Russian food specialists to develop menus for
missions to the Mirspace station, soups became a priority.
In the 1990s, important agreements for American/
Russian cooperation in space were signed. The agreements
allowed for astronauts and cosmonauts to fly on each other’s
space vehicles and for Americans to work on the Mirspace
station. This cooperation ultimately led to the creation of the
International Space Station (ISS), which routinely includes
Americans and Russians as a part of the crew.
As a result of this new cooperation in space, feeding crews
became more complicated. Menus had to reflect cultural differ-
ences. Soup was important to the cosmonauts, and so NASA
expanded its soup offerings. The mixed crews were given the
opportunity to sample each other’s delicacies, which sometimes
stretched the limits of diplomacy.
There are just some items you have to grow up with in
order to appreciate. American astronauts were hard pressed to
consume Russian borscht, a bright red soup made from beet-
root. The Russians looked askance at the great American
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_4,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 201055culinary institution, peanut bu tter. Aleksei Leonov, the first
person to take a space walk and one of two Russian members
on the 1975 Apollo-Soyuz mission, gagged on a sample and tried
to spit it out.
One area of universal agreement was fresh fruit and vegetables.
Both have been ‘‘must have’’ menu items since the early days of the
space shuttle. Part of the reason for this was that two new categories
of astronauts were crea ted for the shuttle pr ogram—Mission Spe-
cialists and Payload Specialists. These were scientists and engineers
selected to conduct research in space and perform other space tasks
such as deploying payloads and assembling structures. Often, Mis-
sion and Payload Specialists came from the ranks of the young and
health-conscious. To satisfy th em, fresh fruits and vegetables
(apples, bananas, and carrot and celery sticks) began to fly and
have been a part of the food manifest ever since. Occasionally,
oranges, pears, nectarines, grapefr uit, and, for the stout of stomach,
jalapeno peppers have flown (Figures 4.1 and 4.2).
FIGURE 4.1 Japanese astronaut Mamoru Mohri with Japanese apple on
Shuttle. This particular variety of apple is highly recognizable in Japan, but
banned in the US, so NASA had to get special permission from the USDA
to import them and follow a strict protocol to insure all seeds were
destroyed. (NASA photograph).56 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSome of the challenges of providing fresh fruit and salads to flight
crews were discussed in the snack and appetizer chapter. There’s more!
All fresh fruits and veggies have to be consumed in the first 2–3
days of the mission. One of the problems with fruit is that it is
metabolically active and expels odors while ripening. Stowed in the
spacecraft several hours before launch, the odors accumulate in the
FIGURE 4.2 Astronaut Rhea Seddon eating an orange from a meal tray
on an early Shuttle mission. Note the peels attached to the rubber holders
on the meal tray. (NASA photograph).Soups and Salads 57closed environment. Some astronauts find the smells objectionable,
especially if they become nauseated when entering microgravity (and
about half of them do). It would seem like the solution is to seal the
fruit and veggies in air-tight bags. Unfortunately, that speeds up the
metabolic activity, and spoilage is accelerated. Because of the odor
problem, bananas and oranges have lost some of their popularity
with crews. Some space shuttle commanders, whose word is final,
have been known to order ‘‘no bananas on my flight.’’
When it comes to cosmonauts, the most popular fresh
foods are onions and garlic. These are always included on the
Progress re-supply ships when food is de livered to space. In spite
of their popularity, these items tend to have a divisive effect on
the crew.
TWINKIES/C213IN SPACE!
When American astronauts began flying on board the Russian
Mirspace station, there was more to be concerned about than
just conducting experiments in space. Due to language diffi-
culties and limited communications with home, Norm Tha-
gard, the first American to work on Mir,felt isolated. After 140 days in
space, Shannon Lucid replaced him. To learn from experience, the
psychology folks at the Johnson Space Center decided to boost
morale and send her a care package on a Progress resupply space-
craft. In the package they put books, records, and comfort foods,
including Twinkies! On its way to space, the package had to be
approved in Russia. The Russians refused to ship the Twinkies
because the package did not have an expiration date. The Food Lab
joked that the package didn’t have to have an expiration date because
Twinkies never expire. In the end, the Twinkies did not make the
journey to Mir.58 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKJELLO AGAIN!
Having comfort foods in space works wonders. According to
Shannon Lucid, ‘ ‘It is the greatest improvement in spaceflight
since my first flight over ten years ago. When I found out that
there was a refrigerator on board Mir,I asked the food folks at
JSC if they could put JelloTMin a drink bag. Once aboard Mir, we
could just add hot water, put the bag in the refrigerator, and, later,
have a great treat. Well, the food folks did just that and sent a
variety of flavors for me to try out. We tried the JelloTMfirst as a
special treat for Easter. It was so great that we decided the Mir-21 -
NASA 2 crew tradition would be to share a bag of JelloTMevery Sunday
night. (Every once in a while, Yuri will come up to me and say, ‘ ‘Isn’t
today Sunday?’ ’ and I will say ‘ ‘No, it’s not. No JelloTMtonight!!!’’)’’
(Figure 4.3).
FIGURE 4.3 Cosmonauts Yury Onufyyenko, Yury Usachev and Astronaut
Shannon Lucid share a meal on the Russian Mir Space Station. (NASA
photograph)Soups and Salads 59SS CHICKEN NOODLE SOUP ( FIGURE 4.4)
1/2 cup dried fettuccine noodles
3 tbsp National 150 filling aid
starch from the National Starchand Chemical Co. (maysubstitute with 1 tbspcornstarch)
1 tbsp soft white wheat dark
toasted flour from Breiss Maltand Ingredient Co.
1/2 tsp salt1/2 tsp coarse ground black
pepper
1/4 tsp dried parsley flakes1/4 tsp poultry seasoning11/2 cup water11/4 cup College Inn Frozen 16%
Concentrated Chicken Broth
TMAvailable in the northeast UnitedStates or on the Internet. Maysubstitute with your favoriteconcentrated chicken broth
1/4 cup half and half (milk and
cream)
11/4 cup Individually Quick Frozen
3/4 in. diced natural proportionchicken meat #674314 fromValley Fresh. NASA uses frozen,but you may substitute withfresh.
1/2 cup sliced carrots (1/2 in. piece)1/4 cup diced celery (1/2 in. pieces)1/4 cup fresh diced yellow onions
(1/2 in. pieces)
1. Break fettuccine to decrease length and blanch in boiling
water for 5 minutes and drain.
2. Combine starch, flour, salt, black pepper, parsley, and
poultry seasoning and mix thoroughly.
3. Add starch mixture to ½ cup water, mix well, and set aside.4. Add remaining water and broth to a saucepan and mix. Heat
mixture to simmer.
5. Stir in the starch mixture and half and half.6. Add chicken, carrots, celery, and onion to soup and mix well.7. Add the fettuccine and heat to boiling. Simmer until chicken
and carrots are tender.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Chicken Noodle Soup by
thermo-processing it in a retort pouch.60 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKFIGURE 4.4 Chicken noodle soup.
SS CITRUS SALAD
1 24-oz jar citrus salad in extra light
syrup1 24-oz jar Mandarin oranges in
light syrup
1. Drain citrus salad and Mandarin oranges separately in
colanders for approximately 5 minutes.
2. Combine 7 oz of the drained Mandarin oranges with the
drained citrus salad and carefully mix well so as not to break
up the fruit pieces.
3. Chill and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Citrus Salad by thermo-pro-
cessing it in a retort pouch.Soups and Salads 61SS CREAM OF MUSHROOM SOUP
2 tbsp unsalted butter
4 tbsp canned chopped
mushrooms, stems and pieces
included
2 tbsp Minor’s Mushroom BaseTM.
Available on the Internet or
substitute with another brand1/4 cup white bleached all-purpose
flour
21/3cups water
1½ cups half and half
1. Melt butter in a large saucepan.
2. Puree canned mushroom pieces.
3. Warm mushroom base and half and half together in small
pot.
4. Blend flour into butter using a whisk. Stir over medium heat
for 7–9 minutes until mixture is bubbly and well blended.
Turn off heat.
5. Gradually add water to the flour and mix well.
6. Add mushroom base and pureed mushrooms to the water-
flour mix and heat to boiling. Boil and stir for 1 minute.
7. Add half and half, stir well, and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA freeze dries the Cream of Mushroom Soup prior to
use. It purees the mushrooms so the soup can be consumed
through the beverage straw in microgravity, but this step is not
necessary if consumed with a spoon.62 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS PEACH AMBROSIA (FIGURE 4.5)
4 tbsp pecans
13/4cups peaches, fresh or frozen
1/2 cup fresh Bartlett pears or
canned pear halves in water and
juice concentrate
13/4cups canned, sliced pineapple1 medium fresh banana
1 tsp erythorbic acid (see below for
substitute suggestion)
1 tsp salt
1. Chop pecans into small pieces.
2. Dice peaches and pears into 1/2-in. pieces.
3. Drain pineapple and cut slices into pieces that are approxi-
mately ½ in. at the widest point.
4. Peel bananas and dice into 1/2-in. pieces. To prevent
browning of banana during the peeling and dicing
stage, place banana in a solution of 1 tsp erythorbic
acid and 1 tsp salt and place in 1quart of water. After
dicing rinse bananas with water. Lemon juice may be
used to prevent browning if erythorbic acid is not
available.
5. Mix peaches, pears, pineapple, bananas, and pecans. Chill
and serve.
FIGURE 4.5 Peach Ambrosia.Soups and Salads 63Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Peach Ambrosia by freeze
drying prior to packaging. The pecans are freeze dried separately
and added to the freeze dried fruit.
Peach Ambrosia has been a part of space food programs for
many years, including on menus for Apollo, Skylab, the shuttle,
and the ISS.
SS SPLIT PEA SOUP
1.5 oz Block & Barrel, Imperial,
Endless Hickory hearth ham or
your favorite ham
1 cup dry split green peas
23/4cups water
1 tsp ham base with no added MSG
and with smoke flavoring added
(#14-203) from Eaten Foods Co.
This is a food service product,but substitutes are available on
the Internet
1/4 tsp coarse ground black pepper
2 tbsp whole milk
1 tbsp National 150 filling aid
starch from National Starch and
Chemical Co. (may substitute
with cornstarch)
1. Remove skin from ham and dice into ¼ in. pieces.
2. Rinse peas and sort through to discard any foreign matter.
3. Combine water, ham, split peas, black pepper, and ham
base in a saucepan.
4. Heat on medium, simmer, and stir frequently until peas have
disintegrated (approximately 1½ hours).
5. Add starch to milk to make a slurry; mix well, and add to the
cooked peas.
6. Heat another 5 minutes and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Split Pea Soup by thermo-
processing it in a retort pouch.64 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS POTATO SOUP
23/4cups water
1 tsp Butter Buds 8XTMfrom Butter
Buds Ingredients. You can
substitute with 2 tbsp regular
Butter BudsTM
2 tbsp National 150 filling aid
starch from National Starch and
Chemical Co. (may use
cornstarch as a substitute)
½ tsp ground black pepper
½ tsp salt
1 cup Sysco Classic Potato Pearls,
Excel Instant Mashed
PotatoesTMdistributed by Sysco
Corporation. You may substitute
with your favorite instant
mashed potatoes
1 tbsp unsalted butter
4 tbsp onions, diced into ¼ in.
pieces1¼ tsp bottled minced garlic in
water
1 tsp vegetarian Vegetable Base
#14-403 from Eatem Foods. You
can substitute with your favorite
vegetable base available at
gourmet food stores or from the
Internet
1½ cups whole milk
1¼ cups peeled ½ in. diced Natural
potatoes distributed by Sysco
Corporation. You can use instead
fresh red potatoes
1 tsp Clearjel modified food starch
from the National Starch and
Chemical Co. (Optional)
Pinch of freeze-dried chives
1. Combine starch, Butter Buds, black pepper, salt, and ¼ cup
water. Mix well and set aside.
2. Combine instant potato pearls and 1½ cups water. Mix well
and set aside.
3. Add 1 cup water, butter, onions, garlic, and vegetable base to
a saucepan and begin heating.
4. Heat until the butter melts, then add the potato pearl mix-
ture and mix well.
5. Stir the starch mixture and add to the pan.
6. Heat to simmer and hold for 3–5 minutes.
7. Add the milk, chives, and potatoes and heat to boiling.
8. Simmer until potatoes are tender.
Yield: serves 6
Note: NASA further processes Potato Soup by thermo-proces-
sing in a retort pouch.Soups and Salads 65SS TOMATO BASIL SOUP (FIGURE 4.6)
14-oz can diced tomatoes in juice
10-oz can crushed tomatoes
1/4 tsp vegetable base, Mirepoix, no
MSG from Eatem Foods Co. A
food service product, substitute
with your favorite vegetable base
available at gourmet food stores
or the Internet.
1/8 tsp caramelized garlic base
from Eatem Foods Co. You maysubstitute with your favorite
vegetable base available at
gourmet food stores or the
Internet.
1/2 cup skim milk
Dash of salt
Dash dried oregano
Dash coarse ground black pepper
2 tsp dried whole basil leaves
3 tbsp heavy whipping cream
1. Add crushed tomatoes, diced tomatoes, vegetable base, and
caramelized garlic base in a saucepan. Mix well and heat
over a medium flame.
2. Add milk, salt, pepper, oregano, and basil to the mixture and
mix well. Continue heating.
3. Add the cream and mix well. Heat to boiling and turn down
flame, simmering 3–5 minutes.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes Tomato Basil Soup by thermo-
processing it in a retort pouch.
FIGURE 4.6 Tomato basil soup.66 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS RHUBARB APPLESAUCE
6 oz frozen sliced strawberries
12 oz frozen rhubarb,
approximately ½ in. thick stalks.
If stalks are longer than 1½ in.,
cut or break into 1½ in.. NASAuses frozen, but you may
substitute with fresh
12-oz canned or bottled
unsweetened applesauce
Sugar to taste
1. Thaw strawberries and blend in a blender to a smooth puree.
2. Combine pureed strawberries, applesauce, and rhubarb and
mix well.
3. Heat in a saucepan on medium for 15 minutes or until the
rhubarb is tender.
4. Add sugar as needed. Chill and serve.
Astronauts eat this at room temperature because there is no
refrigerator on the shuttle or on the ISS.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes Rhubarb Applesauce by thermo-
processing it in a retort pouch.
SS TROPICAL FRUIT SALAD
1 24-oz jar mango in extra light
syrup1 24-oz jar tropical mixed fruit in
light syrup with passion fruit
juice
1. Drain mango in a colander for approximately 5 minutes and
cut into ½ in. cubes.
2. Drain tropical mixed fruit for approximately 5 minutes.
3. Add about half of the cubed mango to the drained tropical
mixed fruit and carefully mix well so as not to break up the
fruit pieces.
4. Chill and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Tropical Fruit Salad by
thermo-processing it in a retort pouch.Soups and Salads 67PAULA HALL’S* HILL COUNTRY POTATO SALAD
Dressing:
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1/3 cup cider vinegar
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
4 pickled jalapenos (CAUTION: This
will be hot!)
4 cloves of garlic1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp dried oregano
1 tsp freshly ground pepper
1 tsp salt
Salad:
6 red potatoes, unpeeled, cut into
quarters
1 red onion, sliced
1/4 cup fresh cilantro, chopped1 cup whole kernel corn, canned or
frozen
2 red bell peppers, cut into julienne
strips
6 green onions, chopped
1. Combine all ingredients for dressing in a blender container.
Process at high speed until smooth.
2. Cook the potatoes in boiling water in a saucepan until ten-
der; drain.
3. Toss with the dressing in a large bowl.
4. Add the onion, cilantro, corn, red peppers, and green onions,
tossing to coat.
5. Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Yield: 12 servings
*Former shuttle/ISS dietitian for 10 years, who lost her battle
with cancer in 2007.68 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKBILL POGUE’S VINEGAR SLAW
1 head cabbage (can use half green and half red cabbage; this makes the
slaw pink)
Sauce:
1 cup white vinegar
1 cup sugar1 cup water
1/8 tsp Tabasco Sauce
1. Cut cabbage into 2-in. chunks. Put some into blender and
cover with water.
2. Pulse gently on CHOP. Drain through strainer and pour into
bowl. Continue until all is chopped.
3. Mix sauce ingredients and set aside until sugar is dissolved.
Stir and mix with cabbage (it should cover cabbage).
4. Refrigerate overnight.
Yield: 10–12 servings
Meet the Astronaut: Bill Pogue, Skylab 4 (84 days)
Colonel Pogue received his Bachelor of Science degree in
Education from Oklahoma Baptist University in 1951 and
Master’s degree in Mathematics from Oklahoma State Uni-
versity in 1960. He enlisted in the air force in 1951 and
received his commission in 1952. While serving with the
Fifth Air Force during the Korean Conflict, from 1953 to
1954, he completed a combat tour in fighter bombers. From
1955 to 1957, he was a member of the USAF Thunderbirds.
Colonel Pogue is one of nineteen astronauts selected by
NASA in April 1966. He was the pilot of Skylab 4 (third and
final manned visit to the Skylab orbital workshop), launched
November 16, 1973, and concluded February 8, 1974. This
was the longest manned flight (84 days, 1 hour and 15
minutes) in the history of US manned space exploration at
that time.Soups and Salads 69CONNIE STADLER’S* STRAWBERRY RHUBARB
SALAD
*Former Apollo, Skylab, and shuttle dietitian from 1970 to 1988.
4 cups rhubarb
2 tbsp water
1 cup sugar
1 package strawberry-flavored
gelatin1-lb package frozen strawberries
or 1 pint fresh strawberries,
mashed
1. Cut rhubarb into 1-in. pieces.
2. Place in baking dish and sprinkle with water and sugar.
3. Bake in 350 8F oven for 40 minutes.
4. Remove from oven and stir in the dry gelatin immediately.
5. Chill until the mixture starts to set, then add the straw-
berries and chill for several more hours until firm.
What You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
Chicken Consomme ´(Minors vegetarian consomme ´prep, chicken
style, by Nestle)70 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCHAPTER 5
Bread, Tortillas,
and Sandwiches
Bread, one of the oldest and most popular of all commercially
prepared foods, is a big problem for spaceflight. As mentioned
before, there is the crumb problem. The crumbs go everywhere
in microgravity. But keeping bread fresh and tasty enough for
eating is the real challenge.
During the Apollo Moon flights, the crew cabin door had
to be opened occasionally for spacewalks. The door did not have
an airlock. All three crew members had to don their spacesuits
in preparation for a single crew member to go outside. Cabin air
was bled away, and the hatch was then opened.
After the spacewalk, the cabin was sealed and flooded with
fresh oxygen. Suits were removed and stowed. The astronauts
were hungry, and individual slices of bread were on the menu.
With vacuum conditions inside the cabin during the spacewalk,
air inside the bread packages began to expand and pop the seal.
All air inside the packages leaked out. This released the nitrogen
gas packed with the bread to retard spoilage. The bread was still
OK to eat, at least at first, but the loss of nitrogen and the leak
in the package shortened the shelf life of bread slices reserved for
future meals. It was suggested that the problem of popping
"bread bags" would be solved by vacuum-sealing bread prior to
flight. All that strategy accomplished was to pre-squish the
bread into a kind of ‘‘bread leather.’’
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_5,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 201073One novel solution for the bread was to can it. During the
Skylab mission, bread was actually baked inside small cans and sealed.
The idea worked, but it provided only a single dinner roll per can.
Another strategy included irradiating the bread to kill microorgan-
isms and prolong freshness. Timing was everything, and even with
irradiation, the flight stowage process took so long that the bread was
well past freshness before liftoff.
Frozen sandwiches, made to c rew member specifications,
are placed in flight suit pockets or carried onboard in some
other way for first meals in spac e. This practice began after an
astronaut on the Gemini 3 mission (usually said to be John
Young) smuggled a corned beef sandwich in his flight suit. The
astronaut got "busted" after word leaked out. NASA was con-
cerned about potential safety pro blems, and reporters had a fun
story to pursue.
One interesting discovery about bread in space was made.
Individual slices of rye bread had the best shelf life of all bread tried
for flight. However, the rye bread eventually lost its appeal if used too
frequently.
Single-slice bread packages con tinued to be flown on the first
space shuttle missions. The shuttl e cabin has an airlock, and when
spacewalks were scheduled, the cabin air did not have to be bled
away before the door could be opened. The popping bread package
problem was solved. There were still the crumbs and the staleness
problem. Astronaut Mary Cleave a nd Payload Specialist Rodolfo
Vela (the first Mexican astronau t) introduced tortillas to the
shuttle menu in 1985 (Figure 5.1). It was almost a "duh" moment
for spaceflight. Tortillas produce very few crumbs. They can be
rolled up into one-handed sandwiches and make great cabin
Frisbees. Tortillas were an immediate hit and have flown ever
since.
The first fresh tortillas were obtained from a local Houston
tortilla factory and hand carried to the Kennedy Space Center.
When shuttle missions were exten ded to longer periods in space
(up to 17 days), freshness became a problem. With no refrig-
eration on board, the tortillas would often develop mold after
5–7 days.
Since tortillas were the prima ry bread for the shuttle, food
lab researchers began an effort to develop an extended shelf-life
tortilla. A similar effort for bread, used in the military for ready74 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKto eat meals, had achieved success. The concept employed
reduced water activity and depleted oxygen. Water activity is a
measurement of the water available for microorganisms to multi-
ply. Reducing the water activity prevents the growth of micro-
organisms. Formulation chang es and replacing some water with
glycerin achieved the reduction. To cut back on oxygen, the
tortillas were packaged in a foil pouch flushed with nitrogen.
Furthermore, an oxygen scavenger packet was placed inside the
pouch to remove remaining oxyge n in the tortilla. Mold cannot
grow without oxygen (Figure 5.2).
FIGURE 5.1 Mexican payload specialist Rudolfo Vela Neri, on Shuttle
with a tortilla. Astronaut Mary Cleave and Rudolfo are credited with
introducing tortillas on Shuttle (NASA photograph).Bread, Tortillas, and Sandwiches 75NASA made extended shelf life tortillas for several years. One
of the drawbacks with the extended shelf life tortillas was that they
became bitter tasting after 6 months in storage. When Taco Bell
came out with the extended shelf life tortilla in the late 1990s NASA
tested them. They found that the Taco Bell tortillas would store for
12 months without any bitter flavor development. NASA began
using the Taco Bell tortillas for extended duration missions like
those on the ISS. However, they still use fresh tortillas for short
shuttle missions.
Not satisfied with just tortillas, NASA has conducted
research on bread making in space. Astronauts on multi-year
missions to Mars will likely have to grow some of their own
food. A high-yield wheat has been developed specifically for
spaceflight by scientists at the University of Utah. The wheat
has short stalks and can grow unde r continuous lighting condi-
tions (Figure 5.3). Such a plan will require a small flour mill
FIGURE 5.2 Extended shelf life tortillas. The package is sealed in a
nitrogen atmosphere and the oxygen scavenger packet removes any residual
oxygen (NASA photograph).76 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKa n da no v e nf o rb a k i n g .N A S Ah a sc o m m u n i c a t e dw i t ha
Swedish company working on a prototype bread machine that
might work in microgravity. Unfor tunately, the electrical power
requirements for the bread maker far exceeded what is available
on ISS. Perhaps, future astron auts will have a bakery in the
permanent base they establish on the Moon.
The combinations for space s andwiches in space are end-
less. Astronauts like to spread cheese, tuna, and chicken salad,
bean dip, peanut butter and jelly, and many meats on their
tortillas (Figure 5.4). There is a skill to making tortilla roll-
ups in space. You have to be conservative in the amounts of
ingredients you put in them. If you think eating tortilla roll-ups
is messy on Earth ...
FIGURE 5.3 Test subject Nigel Packam inside a sealed chamber that
used wheat to produce his oxygen (NASA photograph).Bread, Tortillas, and Sandwiches 77FIRST SANDWICH IN SPACE
Mercury astronauts didn’t think much of the few foods they
were permitted to eat in space. Gus Grissom, pilot of the
second Mercury mission, liked the food less than anybody
and wasn’t shy about saying so. Gus was assigned to the
Gemini 3 mission along with new astronaut John Young. Young got
Wally Schirra, another Mercury astronaut, to pick up a corned beef
sandwich from Wolfies Deli in Cocoa Beach. In orbit, when Gus was
supposed to have a meal, John pulled out the sandwich from a
flight suit pocket and said, ‘‘Here skipper, want to try a sandwich?’ ’
Gus took a couple of bites and realized the bread was too crumbly.
He stopped eating it.
FIGURE 5.4 Astronaut Franklin Chang-Diaz spreads bean dip on a
tortilla (NASA photograph).78 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKThe Gemini 3 crew successfully demonstrated that manned
spacecraft could be maneuvered in space. However, word of the
sandwich got out, and Gemini 3 is now remembered as the corned
beef sandwich flight. The corned beef sandwich was even dis-
cussed in congressional budget hearings. Deke Slayton, head of
the Astronaut Office, had to put an official reprimand in John’s
personnel file. The reprimand didn’t hurt John’s future as an astro-
naut, though. He eventually walked on the Moon and commanded
the first space shuttle flight. Sadly, Grissom lost his life in the tragic
Apollo 1 fire along with Roger Chaffee and Ed White.
DEADLY TUNA
On one of the Apollo missions, an astronaut decided to eat a
can of tuna salad left open from the day before. Since there
wasn’t any refrigeration on board, one of the other of the
crew said to him, ‘ ‘You’re gonna get sick. You may die.’’ The
worried astronaut called down from space and asked if it was OK to
eat it. He was told no with no uncertainty: ‘ ‘Absolutely, definitely do
not eat that. Open up another one if you want to eat tuna salad.’’
Fortunately, the tuna salad was a fairly acidic product, and nothing
happened to the astronaut from having eaten it. Being an astronaut
with an iron stomach probably helped, too.
SPACE FOOD TRIVIA
What do you think are the five most popular foods eaten in
space?1. Shrimp Cocktail 2. Lemonade 3. Steak 4. M&Ms15. BrowniesBread, Tortillas, and Sandwiches 79FROZEN SPACE SANDWICH RECIPE
2 slices white, whole wheat, or rye
bread, with no crumbly coatings
Lunch meat (your choice)Cheese (your choice)
Condiment packets (your choice)
Sealable plastic bag
1. Place meat and cheese on bread.
2. Slice diagonally.
3. Place in bag, seal, and freeze.
4. Remove from freezer and thaw at room temperature.
5. Add condiments and eat within 6 hours or discard.
Yield: 1 serving
TORTILLA ROLL-UP
1 tortilla
Peanut butter, refried beans,
chicken salad, or anything elsein your pantry that strikes your
fancy
Jelly (optional)
Spread the filling on the tortilla and roll it up.
Caution: If you are in microgravity and plan on using your tortilla
as a Frisbee, save the filling step for later. Unevenly spread
filling can affect the flight handling characteristics of the tortilla
Frisbee and may lead to scattered globs of filling or tortilla
Frisbee art adhering to cabin walls.80 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKWhat You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
6-in. flour tortillas (soft taco kits only)
Whole wheat flat bread
Dinner rolls
Extended shelf life waffles by DeWafelbakkers, Inc.
Cinnamon Raisin Danish by Sara Lee
Little DebbieTMsnack fudge brownies
Prepackaged cinnamon rollsBread, Tortillas, and Sandwiches 81CHAPTER 6
Main Dishes
What’s for dinner? That’s a question all of us ask just about
every day. Sometimes, it is hard enough just to plan the evening
meal in advance, much less having to think about meals for the
rest of the week. Debating daily dinner selections was not
something Gemini orApollo astronauts did during their flights.
Their dinner menus were selected for them 6 months in
advance!
At first, everybody ate the same thing. Their meals were
prepackaged. The appetizer, entre ´e, vegetable, condiments,
drink, and dessert were contained in a single package. If you
didn’t feel like a meal combination on a particular day, you were
pretty much out of luck.
Of course, astronauts could beat the system. If the meal
package contained chocolate pudding and you really wanted
cookies, you could open another day’s meal and swap items. It
meant a little busywork to make sure the raided meal package
was resealed and stowed. Then, there was the temptation of
having two desserts one day and none the next—feast or
famine.
In the beginning of the US manned space program, astro-
nauts were pretty interchangeable (although none would admit
it). They could be no taller than 501100and weigh no more than
185 lb. They had to have jet test pilot experience and a tolerance
for bizarre medical tests. Although American women were not
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_6,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 201083prohibited from spaceflight, they didn’t get the chance to prove their
equality until more than 20 years after the first human traveled into
space.
The first cracks in the ‘‘right stuff’’ astronaut program came
during the Apollo program. Harrison Schmidt, a geologist, got to
walk on the Moon during the Apollo 17 mission. Then came
medical doctor Joseph Kerwin as part of the three-man crew for
theSkylab 2 mission. Jack Lousma, on the Skylab 3 mission, broke
the mold in a different way. He was the tallest and heaviest astro-
naut to fly in space at that time. A s a result of his extra size, his
caloric requirements were greater than his crewmates. He got to
double up on some entre ´es, like two cans of spaghetti and meatballs
for dinner.
The desire of astronauts to select their meals at mealtime rather
than have it decided for them 6 months ahead became a ‘‘perfect
storm’’ on one space shuttle mission. The crew, insisting on having it
their way, spent valuable orbital time at the beginning of their
mission unpacking all of their food items and re-stowing them pantry
style. They proved that a pantry system was feasible for food storage
on the shuttle, and it made the crew happier. Naturally there was
resistance to this from the medical folks, nutritionists, and dietitians
who wanted to monitor what and how much astronauts were con-
suming as a part of a comprehensive health-monitoring program.
After more than two decades of their health being monitored in
space, the astronauts rebelled. As one astronaut put it, ‘‘I am 40 years
old and have made it this far without a dietitian or doctor watching
what I eat.’’
Space menus are still picked 6 months in advance. Breakfasts,
lunches, and dinners for the entire crew are stowed in separate
lockers, or individual lockers hold complete mission meals for each
astronaut.
Foods served on the ISS are still based on the individual meal
system. This helps the food laboratory staff members determine how
much food should be sent into space for the crew. Once onboard the
ISS, the food is stored in a pantry. Crew members are permitted to
indulge themselves but are expected to demonstrate common sense in
their dietary choices.84 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKDO ASTRONAUTS HAVE GOOD TASTE?
It has always been widely suspected that microgravity has a
significant effect on the ability of astronauts to taste food in
space. Without Earth’s gravitational effects, normal convec-
tion currents are not present. The aromas from a fragrant
bowl of hot soup will not rise to the nose to register a sensation in
the brain.
Whether or not taste changes in space is debatable. Some
astronauts say there is a definite change, while others report no
difference. Two in-flight and one ground-based experiment failed
to settle this issue. Theoretically, there should be some difference
in taste, either due to not being able to smell the food as they
normally do or to physiological changes that occur in the human
body. In microgravity, body fluids tend to accumulate in the upper
torso, resulting in congestion.
CHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: A BOOTLEG
OPERATION
When our first shipment of space food was shipped to
Russia, Russian customs officials sent word that NASA
would have to pay a large sum of money to process it
through their customs. Additionally, Russian customs
insisted on breaking the seals on the containers for inspection.
That caused a big problem, because Russian food specialists
would not accept containers with broken seals. It became
‘‘C atc h 2 2’’ time. Fin al ly, we ha d the shipment returned to us, as
a deadline was looming. Luckily, a group of NASA specialists were
h e a d i n gt oR u s s i af o ram e e t i n g .E a c ho fu sw a sg i v e nab o xo f
space food to check through as baggage. The Russian customs
office was circumvented. After the incident, an agreement was
reached to bypass Russian customs in the future.Main Dishes 85CHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: GEORGIA BBQ
When astronaut Sonny Carter from Georgia was assigned to
the STS-33 shuttle mission, he immediately began cam-
paigning to add a favorite pork BBQ to the menu. I told him
to bring back a sample the next time he was in Georgia. We
freeze dried it, did a taste panel evaluation, and then sent it to the
microbiological laboratory for analysis. The taste panel results
were good, but the sample failed the microbiological tests in sev-
eral categories. I told Sonny that the BBQ failed microbiological
tests and consequently could not be used in space. I thought that
would be the end of it but should have known better. People like
S o n n yd o n ’ tg e tt ob ea s t r o n a u t sb y accepting ‘ ‘no’’ for an answer.
An MD, pro soccer player, and fighter pilot, Sonny was ready for
Round Two. He thought the sample might have been contami-
nated in transit and brought in another for testing. It failed as
well. Sonny kept at it, and I finally asked him to give me the
telephone number of the BBQ producer. I learned that to produce
the BBQ, the pork shoulders were roasted and the meat was
hand pulled. I asked the producer to cook a shoulder and remove
it from the oven with sterile gloves, package and freeze it, and
ship it frozen to Houston. We pulled the meat from the bone using
aseptic procedures, and it passed the microbiological tests.
Sonny was finally rewarded for his efforts and got to dine on
Georgia BBQ in space. In spite of the fuss, the Georgia BBQ was
not popular enough with other crews to continue it on the shuttle
food list. (Sadly, Sonny became another astronaut to lose his life
during the program. He was killed in a commercial plane crash
while on NASA business.)86 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKFIGURE 6.1 Sliced beef with BBQ sauce.SS SLICED BEEF WITH BBQ SAUCE (FIGURE 6.1)
2 lb beef round
2¼ cups honey BBQ sauce1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
1. Cook beef in a 350 8F oven to medium well done (showing
1508F using a meat thermometer).
2. Cool, trim, and slice into ¼ in. slabs.
3. Mix vinegar and BBQ sauce.
4. Place beef and BBQ sauce mix in a baking dish and reheat.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Sliced Beef with BBQ Sauce
by thermo-processing it in a retort pouch.Main Dishes 87SS CHICKEN WITH CORN AND BLACK BEANS
1 lb Southwest Medley, Individually
Quick Frozen corn/black bean
medley from Jon-Lin Foods,
Colton CA. Food service product;
substitute with fresh or frozen
corn and black beans.
6 oz chicken Individually Quick
Frozen, Classic ½-in. fully
cooked white meat from SyscoCorporation. Food service
product; NASA uses frozen, but
you can substitute with fresh.
8 oz canned diced tomatoes in
puree
1/4 tsp garlic powder
1/8 tsp salt
Pinch ground black pepper
1. Place all ingredients in a saucepan and bring to boil.
2. Reduce heat and simmer until beans and corn are tender.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes Chicken with Corn and Black
Beans by thermo-processing it in a retort pouch.
SS CHICKEN SALAD
2 lb skinned chicken breasts
2 tbsp melted butter
4 sticks celery1 medium size red onion
1 cup plus 4 tbsp low-fat or fat-free
mayonnaise
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Place chicken on trays and baste both sides with melted
butter.
3. Bake to an internal temperature of 190 8F, approximately
20 minutes
4. Flip chicken, baste with butter, rotate pan, and bake an
additional 20 minutes.
5. Remove chicken from oven, allow to cool slightly, and dice
into approximately ¼ in. cubes.
6. Dice celery and red onions into approximately ¼ in. pieces
7. Combine diced chicken with the mayonnaise, celery, and red
onion. Mix well, chill, and serve.
Yield: 7 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Chicken Salad by freeze drying.88 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS CORN BREAD DRESSING (FIGURE 6.2)
The cornbread is an ingredient and has to be made first.
Cornbread:
2/3 cup skim milk
1/3 cup Egg BeatersTMor other egg
substitute
1 cup yellow corn meal1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
1 tbsp extra fine sugar
2½ tsp baking powder
1. Grease an 8 /C28 in. baking pan with butter or margarine.
2. Place milk and egg product into a bowl and mix well.
3. Add cornmeal, flour, sugar, and baking powder. Mix until
thoroughly combined.
4. Pour into baking pan and bake approximately 12 minutes at
3508F or until golden brown and a toothpick inserted in
center comes out clean.
5. Cool cornbread to room temperature and crumble into
coarse crumbs. Put in a mixing bowl and set aside.
FIGURE 6.2 Corn bread dressing.Main Dishes 89Cornbread Dressing:
1/4 medium yellow onion
1 medium stalk celery
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1/4 tsp salt
1 tsp dried poultry seasoning1/4 tsp coarse ground black pepper
1/4 tsp dried parsley flakes
1/4 tsp dried rubbed sage
1 cup reduced sodium chicken broth
1. Preheat oven to 325 8F.
2. Grease an 8 /C28 in. baking pan with butter or margarine.
3. Peel onion, puree in a food processor, and set aside.
4. Trim ends of celery and finely chop in a food processor. Add
to onion puree.
5. Heat saute ´pan over medium heat. Melt butter and saute ´onion
pureeandceleryuntilceleryissoft.Addtocrumbledcornbread.
6. In a separate bowl combine salt, poultry seasoning, black
pepper, parsley, and sage. Add to cornbread-saute ´ed
vegetable mixture and mix well.
7. Pour chicken broth over cornbread mixture and mix well.
8. Spoon dressing into the baking pan.
9. Bake at 325 8F for 35 minutes.
10. Remove from oven and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Cornbread Dressing by freeze
drying.90 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS MEATLOAF (FIGURE 6.3)
2 tbsp onion soup mix
2 tbsp saltine-style crackers,
coarsely crushed
1/4 tsp coarse ground black pepper
1/8 tsp dried oregano leaves
1/8 tsp dried basil leaves
1 tsp minced garlic2 tbsp plus 1 tsp Egg BeatersTMegg
substitute
2 lb lean ground beef
1 cup canned crushed tomatoes
1/3 cup canned or bottled chili sauce
2 tbsp light brown sugar
1/8 tsp distilled white vinegar
1. Combine the onion soup mix, crackers, black pepper, ore-
gano, and basil and mix well.
2. Add the garlic and egg product and mix well.
3. Blend in the ground beef and tomatoes (NASA uses a ribbon
blender and refrigerates the mixture overnight.)
4. Preheat convection oven to 450 8F. NASA uses a convection
oven, but a conventional oven will work, too.
5. Line two baking sheets with aluminum foil and spray with
nonstick vegetable cooking spray.
FIGURE 6.3 Meatloaf.Main Dishes 916. Scoop out half-cup quantities of the meatloaf mixture,
form into oval shaped patties, and place on the baking
sheets.
7. Cook the meatloaf patties for approximately 15 minutes
(convection oven) (18 minutes conventional) or until browned
and cooked through. Internal cooking temperature should
be 170–185 8F.
8. Combine the chili sauce, brown sugar, and vinegar and heat.
9. Serve the meatloaf and pour the sauce over it.
Yield: 10 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Meatloaf by adding the meatloaf
and a portion of the sauce to a retort pouch and thermo-processing.
SS SWEET ’N SOUR CHICKEN
3 lb boneless and skinless chicken
breasts
1/3 cup Sweet & Sour Sauce (NASA
uses the dried mix, but the liquid
is more readily available and
equally suitable.)1 tbsp Clearjel instant starch from
national Starch and Chemical
Co. (may substitute cornstarch)
3 tbsp salted butter
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Place chicken on trays and baste both sides with melted
butter.
3. Bake to an internal temperature of 190 8F, approximately 20
minutes; flip chicken, baste with butter, rotate pan, and bake
an additional 20 minutes if needed.
4. Remove chicken from oven, allow to cool slightly, and dice
into approximately 1/2 in. cubes.
5. Mix the sweet and sour sauce and the instant starch and add
water to rehydrate.
6. Mix with the chicken cubes and heat and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Sweet ’n Sour Chicken
by freeze drying the chicken and adding the sauce and starch.92 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS CHICKEN-PINEAPPLE SALAD (FIGURE 6.4)
2 lb deboned and skinned chicken
breasts
3 tbsp salted butter
1 1/3 cups drained canned
pineapple tidbits in their own
juice3/4 cup plus 2 tbsp nonfat
mayonnaise dressing
1/2 cup diced celery pieces, about
1/4 in. in size
1/3 cup chopped pecans
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Place chicken on trays and baste both sides with melted
butter.
3. Bake to an internal temperature of 190 8F for about 20 min-
utes. Flip chicken, baste with butter, rotate pan, and bake an
additional 20 minutes or until 190 8F is reached.
4. Remove chicken from oven, allow to cool slightly, and dice
into approximately ¼ in. cubes.
5. Mix chicken, pineapple, dressing, celery, and pecans and
chill before serving.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Chicken-Pineapple Salad by
freeze drying.
FIGURE 6.4 Chicken-pineapple salad.Main Dishes 93SS RED BEANS AND RICE (FIGURE 6.5)
11 oz dried small red beans
5½ cups distilled water
1/2 cup Individually Quick Frozen
parboiled rice # QF-P-00000-64
from Sage V Foods. Fully cooked
food service product; can
substitute with cooked rice
3 tbsp diced celery
3 tbsp diced onions
3¼ cups water
Pinch garlic powder
Pinch ground cayenne pepper
Pinch ground dried oregano
1/8 tsp salt
2 tbsp cornstarch1½ tsp TabascoTMsauce
1 tbsp caramelized garlic base #
99-404 from Eatem Foods. Food
service product; can substitute
with chopped garlic in water
1 tbsp caramelized onion base #
99-425 from Eatem Foods. Food
service product; can substitute
with onion powder
1 1/3 cup navy bean flakes from
Inland Empire Foods. Fully
cooked dried food service
product; can use mashed navy
beans as a substitute
1/2 tsp Liquid SmokeTM
FIGURE 6.5 Red beans and rice.94 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOK1. Sort through the red beans and discard any foreign parts.
Rinse with cold tap water.
2. Add distilled water and allow the beans to soak overnight.
3. Remove beans and rinse well in tap water. Drain well.
4. Combine soaked beans, ric e, celery, and onions. Set
aside.
5. Combine garlic powder, cayenne pepper, oregano,
salt, and starch with ¼ cup of water. Mix well and set
aside.
6. Add remaining water to bean mixture followed by the
TabascoTM, caramelized garlic base, and caramelized onion
base. Mix well.
7. Add bean flakes to pot, mix well, and let stand for
30 minutes.
8. Heat mixture to simmer and add the starch mixture while
stirring.
9. Add Liquid Smoke to beans and rice mixture and continue
heating to boiling. Simmer until beans are tender.
Yield: serves 6
Note: NASA further processes the Red Beans and Rice by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.Main Dishes 95RACHAEL RAY’S 5 VEGETABLE FRIED RICE WITH
5-SPICE PORK
2 cups chicken stock
3/4 cup water
1½ cups cooked white rice
5 tbsp vegetable oil, divided
1 lb thin-cut pork loin chops
Salt
Pepper
2 tsp Chinese 5-spice powder
2 eggs, beaten
1/2 lb shitake mushrooms, thinly
sliced1/2 cup carrots, shredded
1 red bell pepper, seeded,
quartered lengthwise, and cut
into 1/4 in. slices
1 scallion, thinly sliced on an angle
1 cup green peas, fresh or frozen
3 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 in. fresh ginger root, grated or
minced
1/2 cup dark soy sauce (Tamari)
1. Bring stock and water to a boil. Add rice, stir, cover, and cook
for about 18 minutes, then fluff with a fork and turn out onto
a cookie sheet to cool.
2. Just before taking the ric e off the stove, heat a deep
nonstick skillet or wok over high heat with 2 tbsp of
vegetable oil.
3. Thinly slice the pork and season with salt, pepper, and
2 teaspoons of 5-spice powder. Stir fry the meat, then push
off to the sides or transfer to a holding plate.
4. Add another tablespoon of vegetable oil and heat. Then add
eggs and scramble, breaking into small bits. Push eggs off
to side of pan.
5. Add remaining 2 tbsp of vegetable oil to pan. Heat oil, then
stir fry the mushrooms, carrots, and red peppers for
2 minutes. Add scallions, peas, garlic, and ginger and
toss around for one minute more.
6. Add rice and saute ´mixture for a couple of minutes, then
douse with Tamari and mix in the pork.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the
5 Vegetable Fried Rice with 5-Spice Pork by freeze drying.96 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKRACHAEL RAY’S SWEDISH MEATBALLS (FIGURE 6.6)
1/3 lb ground beef
1/3 lb ground pork
1/3 lb ground veal
1 egg
1/2 cup plain bread crumbs
1/4 cup cream
3 tbsp finely chopped white onion
1/4 tsp dried mustard
1/8 tsp grated nutmeg
Salt
Pepper
2 tbsp unsalted butter2 tbsp white, unbleached flour
2 cups beef stock
1 cup sour cream
2 tsp of lingonberry preserves, red
currant jelly, or grape jelly
1 lb egg noodles, cooked al dente
finely chopped fresh dill, for
garnish
finely chopped parsley, for garnish
1/2 cup finely chopped cornichons
or baby gherkin pickles, optional
1. Preheat oven to 400 8F.
2. In a bowl, mix meats with egg, bread crumbs, ¼ cup cream,
chopped onions, dried mustard, nutmeg, salt, and pepper.
3. Roll the mixture into 1-in. balls and arrange on a nonstick
baking sheet.
FIGURE 6.6 Rachael Ray’s Swedish Meatballs.Main Dishes 974. Bake 10–12 minutes.
5. Heat a saucepot over medium heat. Melt the butter, whisk in
flour, and cook for 1–2 minutes. Whisk in beef stock and
thicken 6–8 minutes.
6. Stir in sour cream and jelly and warm through.
7. Season finished sauce with salt and pepper, to taste.
8. Remove balls carefully with a thin spatula. Mix meatballs
and egg noodles with sauce and garnish with dill, parsley,
and, if you wish, finely chopped cornichons or baby gherkin
pickles.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Swedish
Meatballs by freeze drying.98 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKRACHAEL RAY’S MINI FLORENTINE TURKEY
MEATBALLS WITH ORZO (FIGURE 6.7)
1 10 oz box frozen spinach, defrosted
in microwave
1 lb ground turkey breast
3 tbsp finely chopped white onion
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
1 egg
1½ cups milk, divided
1/2 cup bread crumbs, a couple of
generous handfuls
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
Coarse salt
Black pepperOlive oil, for generous drizzling
2 tbsp butter
2 tbsp flour
1 cup chicken stock
2 cups shredded provolone cheese
(1 10-oz sack)
1/4 tsp grated nutmeg,
approximately
Handful of finely chopped flat leaf
parsley
1/2 lb Orzo pasta, cooked al dente
1. Preheat oven to 425 8F.
2. Wring the spinach completely dry using a kitchen towel.
3. Place turkey in a bowl and combine with spinach, 3 tbsp of
finely chopped onions, the garlic, the egg, a splash of the
milk, the bread crumbs, and the grated cheese.
FIGURE 6.7 Rachael Ray’s Mini Florentine Turkey meatballs with Orzo.Main Dishes 994. Season the turkey with salt and pepper and add a generous
drizzle of olive oil to the bowl. Mix the meat and roll into
small 1-in. balls. Arrange on a nonstick baking sheet lightly
prepared with oil or cooking spray.
5. Bake balls 10–12 minutes until juices run clear.
6. In a medium saucepot over medium heat melt butter, then
whisk in flour and cook a minute or two more.
7. Whisk in the milk and the stock. Stir until sauce thickens,
4–5 minutes.
8. Season with nutmeg, salt, and pepper, then melt in provo-
lone and Parmesan cheese. Adjust seasonings to taste.
9. Use a spatula to release meatballs and combine with sauce
and pasta. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Mini
Florentine Turkey Meatballs with Orzo by freeze drying.100 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKRACHAEL RAY’S TACO CHILI MAC
2 tbsp corn oil (two turns of the pan)
2 lb ground sirloin
2 jalapeno peppers, seeded and
chopped
1 onion, finely chopped
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped
Salt
Pepper
3 tbsp chili powder, a couple of
healthy palmfuls
1 rounded tablespoon cumin, a
healthy palmful1 bottle of beer or 1½ cups beef
broth
1 28-oz can crushed fire roasted
tomatoes
1 lb small pasta: mini rigatoni with
lines, corkscrews, or elbows
Shredded smoked or sharp
cheddar, for garnish
Chopped green olives with
pimientos, for garnish
1. Heat a deep skillet over medium high heat. Add oil and then
meat.
2. Brown meat, then add peppers, onions, and garlic. Season
with salt and pepper, chili, and cumin, and cook until tender,
6–8 minutes.
3. Deglaze the pan with beer or broth and stir in tomatoes. Heat
through.
4. Mix tomato sauce with pasta and top with cheese and olives.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Taco Chili
Mac by freeze drying.Main Dishes 101EMERIL’S KICKED UP BACON CHEESE MASHED
POTATOES
4 baking potatoes, such as russets
(about 3 lb), peeled and cut into
1-in. pieces
13/4tsp salt
1/2 cup heavy cream
4 tbsp butter
1/4 tsp ground black pepper8 slices bacon, cooked crisp and
crumbled
1/2 lb sharp cheddar cheese,
grated
1/4 cup sour cream
1/4 cup chopped fresh chives
Freshly ground black pepper
1. Place the potatoes and 1 teaspoon of salt in a heavy 4-quart
saucepan. Add enough water to cover the potatoes by 1 in.
Bring to a boil.
2. Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook until the potatoes are
fork tender, about 20 minutes. Cooking time will be less for
smaller portion sizes.
3. Drain in a colander and return potatoes to the cooking pot.
Add the cream, butter, remaining3/4teaspoon salt, and
black pepper.
4. Place the pan over medium low heat and mash with a
potato masher until you’ve achieved a light texture, about
4–5 minutes.
5. Add the bacon, grated cheese, sour cream, and chopped
chives and stir until thoroughly combined.
Yield: 4–6 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Kicked
Up Bacon Cheese Mashed Potatoes by freeze drying.102 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKEMERIL’S MARDI GRAS JAMBALAYA
1 5-lb duck, trimmed of fat and cut
into 8 pieces
3 tbsp Emeril’s Original EssenceTM
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1 lb Andouille or other spicy
smoked sausage, diced
2 cups chopped onions
1/2 cup chopped green bell
peppers
1/2 cup red bell peppers, chopped
1/2 cup chopped celery
1 tsp salt, or more to taste
1/2 tsp cayenne pepper
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper2 cups peeled, seeded, and
chopped tomatoes
1 tbsp garlic, chopped
3 bay leaves
2 cups uncooked long-grain white rice
2 tsp fresh thyme, minced
2 quarts chicken stock or canned
low-sodium chicken broth
1 lb small shrimp, peeled and
deveined
1 cup chopped green onions (green
and white parts)
1/2 cup minced fresh flat-leaf
parsley
1. Season the duck pieces with 2 tbsp of the Essence. If you
don’t have Essence, use your favorite Creole seasoning.
2. Heat the vegetable oil in a large heavy pot over medium-
high heat. Add the duck, skin side down, and sear for 5
minutes.
3. Turn and sear on the second side for 3 minutes. Remove
from the pot and drain on paper towels.
4. Add the sausage to the fat in the pot and cook, stirring, until
browned, about 5 minutes.
5. Add the onions, bell peppers, celery, salt, cayenne, and
black pepper and cook, stirring often, until the vegetables
are softened, about 5 minutes.
6. Add the tomatoes, garlic, and bay leaves and cook, stirring,
until the tomatoes give off some of their juices, about
2 minutes. Add the rice and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes.
7. Add the thyme, chicken stock, and duck. Bring to a boil.
Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer, stir-
ring occasionally, until the rice is tender, about 30 minutes.
8. Remove duck pieces from the jambalaya and cool slightly.
9. Discard skin and bones and shred duck meat. Return the
duck meat to the rice mixture.
10. Season the shrimp with the remaining Essence. Add the
shrimp to the pot and cook until they turn pink, about 5
minutes.Main Dishes 10311. Remove the pot from the heat and let sit, covered, for 15
minutes.
12. Add the green onions and parsley to the jambalaya and stir
gently. Remove and discard the bay leaves.
13. Adjust the salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Mardi
Gras Jambalaya by freeze drying.
RACHAEL RAY’S SPICY THAI CHICKEN WITH RED
PEPPERS AND BASIL
1½ cups jasmine rice, prepared to
package directions
1 tbsp light vegetable or peanut oil
(one turn of the pan)
1 tbsp hot chili oil (one turn of the
pan)
1½ lb thin cut chicken breast
1 onion, thinly sliced
2 red bell peppers, seeded and very
thinly sliced4 cloves garlic, finely chopped
1 tsp coarse black pepper
1/4 cup dark soy (Tamari)
A few dashes Thai fish sauce, about
1 tsp
2 cups (about 40 leaves) fresh basil
1/4 cup salted peanuts, chopped
A handful of cilantro, finely
chopped
1. Start rice according to package directions.
2. Heat oils in large nonstick skillet or wok over high heat.
3. Shred chicken into thin strips and cut into bite-sized pieces.
Add chicken and stir fry until golden, 2–3 minutes.
4. Push chicken off to the sides of the skillet and add the onions
and peppers to the center of the pan. Stir fry 2–3 minutes,
then combine with meat and add the garlic and pepper. Stir
1 minute, then add soy and fish sauce; adjust seasonings to
taste, tear basil into pieces and wilt in.
5. Remove from heat and serve over rice. Garnish with chopped
salted peanuts and cilantro.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Spicy
Thai Chicken with Red Peppers and Basil by freeze drying.104 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKPAULA HALL’S CHIPOTLE-LIME MARINATED
GRILLED PORK CHOPS
4 boneless or bone-in chops, about
1¼ in. thick
1 chipotle chili, canned in adobo,
chopped, OR 1 dried chipotle
chili, rehydrated and minced
2 tsp oregano2 garlic cloves, crushed
2 tbsp vegetable oil
2/3 cup lime juice
1 tbsp cilantro, chopped
1/2 tsp salt
1. Place chops in a large self-sealing plastic bag; combine
remaining ingredients in a small bowl and pour over chops.
2. Seal bag and refrigerate for 4–24 hours.
3. Remove chops from marinade (discard marinade) and grill
over medium-hot coals for a total of 12–15 minutes, turning
to brown evenly. Serve chops immediately.
Yield: 4 servings
GLORIA MONGAN’S* FAJITAS
1/4 cup lime juice (approx. 2 large
limes)
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp garlic powder
1/8 tsp cayenne pepper
1/4 tsp black pepper
1 lb flank steak, trimmed and
scored
4 chicken breasts, boneless and
skinless
1 medium red onion, thinly sliced1 red bell pepper, cut into thin
strips
1 green bell pepper, cut into thin
strips
1 tsp margarine
4 6-in. flour tortillas, warmed in
oven
1/4 cup chopped tomatoes
1/4 cup lettuce, shredded
1/4 cup picante sauce
2 tbsp reduced-calorie sour cream
*Mongan was a shuttle and ISS dietitian from 1988 to 2004.
1. Mix lime juice, salt, garlic powder, cayenne, and black pep-
per in large shallow dish. Add steak and chicken; turn to
coat.
2. Refrigerate covered, 4 hours or overnight, turning once.Main Dishes 1053. Remove steak and chicken from marinade. Broil or grill 6 in.
from heat, turning once until desired doneness (about 8–10
minutes for medium rare).
4. Saute onion and peppers in margarine until soft.
5. Slice steak and chicken across grain into thin strips.
6. Divide among tortillas and serve with tomatoes, lettuce,
picante sauce, and sour cream.
Yield: 4 servings
GLORIA MONGAN’S KAHLUA GRILLED SHRIMP ON
ANGEL HAIR PASTA
3 lb peeled and cleaned shrimp
Marinade:
1 cup Kahlua (a coffee flavored
liqueur)
1½ cups honey
1½ cups vegetable oil
2 10-ounce bottles Tiger SauceTM
2 tbsp seasoned salt2 tbsp garlic, chopped
1 tbsp parsley, chopped
2 ounces hot pepper sauce
1 tbsp fresh basil, chopped
1 tbsp fresh thyme, chopped
2 tbsp fresh cilantro, chopped
Pasta:
2 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
4 cups beef broth1 tbsp red pepper flakes
1 lb cooked angel hair pasta
1. Combine ingredients for marinade, reserving 1 cup for
sauce. Marinate shrimp for at least 2 hours.
2. Grill shrimp.
3. Heat Worcestershire sauce, beef broth, and red pepper
together.
4. Add cooked pasta to beef broth.
5. Serve shrimp over angel hair pasta.
Yield: 9 servings106 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKJOE KERWIN’S SOUR CREAM CHICKEN
ENCHILADAS
8 oz sour cream
1 10 3/4-oz can cream of chicken
soup
1½ cups chicken broth
1 4-oz can green chilies, chopped12 flour tortillas
2½–3 lb chicken, cooked, boned,
and shredded (reserve broth)
8 oz Monterey Jack cheese, grated
4 oz Cheddar cheese
1. Combine sour cream, soup, broth, and green chilies. Heat
and stir until smooth and well blended.
2. To soften tortillas, heat a small amount of reserved chicken
broth in a skillet. Place tortillas, one at a time, in broth for a
few seconds. Remove and drain.
3. After draining, place tortillas, one at a time, directly into
soup mixture.
4. Lift tortillas out of the soup mixture. Place 3 tbsp chicken
and 2–3 tbsp of each cheese in the center of each tortilla.
Meet the Astronaut: Joe Kerwin, Skylab 2 (28 days)
Dr. Kerwin received a bachelor’s degree in Philosophy from
the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Massachusetts, in
1953, and a doctor of Medicine degree from Northwestern
University Medical School, Chicago, Illinois, in 1957. He
attended the US Navy School of Aviation Medicine in
Pensacola, Florida, being designated a naval flight surgeon in
December 1958. He earned his wings at Beeville, Texas, in
1962 and was selected as a scientist-astronaut by NASA in
June 1965. Dr. Kerwin served as science-pilot for the Skylab
2(SL-2) mission, which launched on May 25 and terminated
on June 22, 1973. SL-2 was for the initial activation and
28-day flight qualification operations of the Skylab orbital
workshop. Dr. Kerwin was the first physician selected to be
an astronaut and the first US physician to go into space.Main Dishes 1075. Roll up the tortillas and place, seam side down, in a 2-quart
baking dish.
6. Pour remaining sauce over tortillas. Sprinkle remaining
cheese on top.
7. Bake at 350 8F for 20–30 minutes or until bubbly.
Yield: Serves 4–6
GERALD CARR’S CROCK POT CHILI
1 lb pinto, red, or anasazi beans
2 tbsp olive or vegetable oil
4 medium green peppers, chopped
3 medium onions, chopped
4 or more garlic cloves, minced
(more is better!)
1 lb ground turkey
1 lb ground turkey sausage
1 package Wick Fowler’s 2-Alarm
Chili MixTM
OR1/4 cup chili powder
1 tsp cayenne pepper
1 tbsp cumin
1 tbsp dried oregano
4 cups canned chopped or diced
tomatoes
1 tbsp vinegar
1. Wash beans and soak overnight in water.
2. Saute ´peppers in vegetable or olive oil; add onion, and cook
until tender, stirring frequently. Add minced garlic.
3. Brown the meat, and stir in the spices. Then add the onion/
pepper mixture and cook for about 10 minutes, stirring
frequently.
4. Pour the meat mixture and the soaked beans into a
crock pot. Add canned tomatoes and vinegar. Add
water as desired, and salt to taste. Simmer for 18–24
hours. If you don’t have a crock pot, do it in the oven at
2508F.108 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMeet the Astronaut: Gerald Carr, Skylab 4 (84 days)
Colonel Gerald Carr received a bachelor’s degree in
Mechanical Engineering from the University of Southern
California in 1954, a Bachelor of Science degree in
Aeronautical Engineering from the US Naval Postgraduate
School in 1961, and a Master of Science degree in
Aeronautical Engineering from Princeton University in
1962. He received flight training at Pensacola, Florida, and
Kingsville, Texas, and was then assigned to Marine All-
Weather-Fighter-Squadron 114, where he gained experience
in the F-9 and the F-6A Skyray. After postgraduate training,
he served with Marine All-Weather-Fighter-Squadron 122
from 1962 to 1965, piloting the F-8 Crusader in the United
States and the Far East. Colonel Carr was one of 19 astro-
nauts selected by NASA in April 1966. Colonel Carr was the
commander of Skylab 4 (third and final manned visit to the
Skylab Orbital Workshop) launched November 16, 1973,
and concluded February 8, 1974. This was the longest
manned flight (84 days, 1 hour, 15 minutes) in the history of
US manned space exploration at that time.Main Dishes 109LINDA AND DICK GORDON’S CRAWFISH ETOUFFEE
1 stick (8 tbsp) unsalted butter
2 tbsp all-purpose flour
1 cup yellow onions, chopped
1/2 cup celery, chopped
1/2 cup green bell peppers,
chopped
1/4 cup green onions, chopped
1 tbsp garlic, minced
2 bay leaves
1 tsp salt
1/4 tsp cayenne
2 tbsp dry sherry
1½ cups shrimp stock or water.
Shrimp stock is not readilyavailable but easy to make. Add
shrimp peels and/or heads to a
pot. Add chopped celery and
onion if desired. Add water to
cover and bring to boil. Simmer
for 1 hour. Cool and strain. It will
keep frozen for 3 months.
1 lb crawfish tails
2 tsp fresh lemon juice
3 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
leaves, plus more for garnish
Cooked long grain white rice, as
accompaniment
1. In a large pot, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add
the flour and cook, stirring, to make a light roux.
2. Add the onions, celery, bell peppers, green onions, garlic,
bay leaves, salt, and pepper and cook, stirring, until the
vegetables are soft, about 5 minutes.
3. Add the sherry and cook for 2–3 minutes. Add the stock and
crawfish tails and bring to a boil.
4. Reduce the heat and simmer until thickened, about
5 minutes.
5. Add the lemon juice.
6. Stir in the parsley and remove from the heat.
7. Adjust the seasoning to taste. Serve over rice, garnished
with additional parsley.110 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMeet the Astronaut: Dick Gordon,Gemini XI and
Apollo 12
Captain Dick Gordon received a Bachelor of Science degree
in Chemistry from the University of Washington in 1951.
He received his wings as a naval aviator in 1953. He then
attended All-Weather Flight School and jet transitional
training and was subsequently assigned to an all-weather
fighter squadron at the Naval Air Station at Jacksonville,
Florida. In 1957, he attended the Navy’s Test Pilot School at
Patuxent River, Maryland, and served as a flight test pilot
until 1960. Captain Gordon was one of three groups of
astronauts named by NASA in October 1963. Captain
Gordon has completed two spaceflights, logging a total of
315 hours and 53 minutes in space—2 hours and 44 minutes
of which were spent in EVA.GERALD CARR’S TURKEY SAUTE
1. Ask your butcher to cut you some turkey cutlets from a
breast of turkey. They should be cut parallel to the breast
bone and about ¼ in. thick. That should give you slabs of
meat about 2–3 in. wide by 4–6 in. long.
2. At home, pound the cutlets fairly gently until they are about
1/8-in. thick. Saute ´them in extra virgin olive oil until they are
golden brown. The olive oil should be laced with minced
garlic, coarse ground pepper, and some lemon juice. Save
the garlic pepper oil.
3. Serve the turkey with your favorite pasta and a green vege-
table. Pour the garlic pepper oil over it all. Some favorite
vegetables are asparagus and spinach, either grilled or
steamed.Main Dishes 111Meet the Astronaut: Bob Crippen, STS-1, STS-7,
STS-41C, STS-41G
Captain Crippen received a Bachelor of Science degree in
Aerospace Engineering from the University of Texas in
1960. He received his commission through the Navy’s
Aviation Officer Program at Pensacola, Florida. He received
his wings at Chase Field in Beeville, Texas. In October 1966
he was selected for the USAF Manned Orbiting Laboratory
Program and was later assigned to NASA when the MOL
program was discontinued. Captain Crippen became a
NASA astronaut in September 1969. He served as pilot on
STS-1 (April 12–14, 1981) and was the spacecraft com-
mander on STS-7 (June 18–24, 1983), STS-41C (April
6–13, 1984) and STS-41G (October 5–13, 1984). A four
flight veteran, Crippen has logged over 565 hours in space.
STS-1, the first shuttle mission, was also the first manned
vehicle to be flown into orbit without benefit of previous
unmanned ‘‘orbital’’ testing. It was also the first to launch
with wings using solid rocket boosters and the first winged
reentry vehicle to return to a conventional runway landing,
weighing more than 99 t as it was braked to a stop on the dry
lakebed at Edwards Air Force Base, California.PANDORA AND BOB CRIPPEN’S COWBOY BEANS
1 lb lean ground beef
1 medium yellow onion, finely diced
1 clove garlic, minced
1 16-oz can baked beans
1 16-oz can pinto beans, drained
and rinsed1 16-oz can light red kidney beans,
drained and rinsed
1 16-oz bottle of your favorite
barbecue sauce
1 cup jalapenos, finely chopped
(optional)
1. Brown ground beef and drain.
2. Add onion, garlic, beans, barbecue sauce, and jalapenos, if
desired.
3. Simmer 15 minutes. Serve with cornbread.
Yield: 16 servings112 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMeet the Astronaut: Ken Reightler, STS-48, STS-60
Ken Reightler received a Bachelor of Science degree in
Aerospace Engineering from US Naval Academy in 1973,
and Master of Science degrees, in 1984, in Aeronautical
Engineering from the US Naval Postgraduate School and in
systems management from the University of Southern
California. He graduated from the US Naval Academy in
1973 and was designated a naval aviator in August 1974 at
Corpus Christi, Texas. He attended the US Naval Test Pilot
School at Patuxent River, Maryland, where he graduated in
1978. He was serving as the chief flight instructor at the US
Naval Test Pilot School when he was selected for the
astronaut program in 1987. Ken Reightler was the pilot on
STS-48 (1991) and STS-60 (1994) and has logged over
327 hours in space.KEN REIGHTLER’S TILGHMAN ISLAND CRAB CAKES
1 egg, beaten
1 heaping tbsp mayonnaise
1 heaping tbsp bottled mustard
1 cup dried bread crumbs
1 tsp Worcestershire sauceJuice of half a lemon
1 lb crab meat, picked over for
shells
Butter or vegetable oil for cooking
1. Mix all ingredients except crab meat together in a bowl. Beat
until well blended.
2. Place crab meat into a bowl; pour blended mixture over and
mix gently but thoroughly.
3. Form into small cakes with hands, pressing together to
prevent breakup during cooking.
4. The cakes may be broiled, brushing with butter while broil-
ing, or pan fried in a skillet with butter or oil. Fry on both
sides until browned.Main Dishes 113PAUL WEITZ’S WHITE CHILI
1 tbsp salad oil
1 medium-size onion, chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tsp ground cumin
2 whole large chicken breasts,
skinned, boned, and cut into
bite-sized chunks
1 16- to 19-oz can of white kidney
beans (cannelloni), drained
1 15½- to 19-oz can of garbanzo
beans, drained1 12-oz can white corn, drained
2 4-oz cans chopped mild green
chilies
2 chicken-flavored bouillon cubes
or 2 packets of dried bouillon
1½ cups water
Hot pepper sauce, to taste
Parsley sprigs for garnish
1 cup (1/4 lb) Monterey Jack
cheese, shredded
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Heat salad oil in small saucepan over medium heat. Cook
onion, garlic, and cumin until onion is tender.
3. In a 2 1/2-quart casserole dish, combine onion mixture with
chicken, white kidney beans, garbanzo beans, corn, green
chilies, bouillon, and water. Cover casserole and bake 50–60
minutes until chicken is tender.
4. To serve, stir hot pepper sauce into chili to taste. Garnish
with parsley. Serve with shredded cheese.
Yield: 8 servings114 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKWhat You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
Garlic herb Italian style baked tofu by White Wave Inc. NASA
processes the tofu in a retort package before use.
Beef Ravioli in a retort pouch by the Wornick Company
Noodles and Stroganoff Sauce with Beef by Oregon Freeze Dry
Backpackers pantry freeze dried chicken cashew curry by American
Outdoor Products
Cheese Tortellini in tomato sauce by SOPAKCO
Chicken breast strips with rib meat, chopped and formed with
chunky salsa in a retort pouch by Wornick
Chicken with Black Beans in a retort pouch by SOPAKCO
Freeze Dried Leonardo da Fettuccine by Alpine Aire LLC
Seasoned chicken breast fillet in a retort pouch by SOPACKO
Meet the Astronaut: Paul Weitz, Skylab 2 and STS-6
Paul Weitz received a Bachelor of Science degree in Aero-
nautical Engineering from Pennsylvania State University in
1954 and a Master’s degree in Aeronautical Engineering
from the US Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey,
California, in 1964. He was awarded his wings in September
1956 and served in various naval squadrons until he was
selected as an astronaut in 1966. He served as pilot on the
crew of Skylab-2 (SL-2), which was launched on May 25 and
ended on June 22, 1973. SL-2 was the first manned Skylab
mission and activated a 28-day flight. In logging 672 hours and
49 minutes aboard the orbital workshop, the crew established
what was then a new world record for a single mission. Weitz
logged 2 hours and 11 minutes in extravehicular activities.
Weitz was also spacecraft commander on the crew of STS-6,
which launched from Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on
April 4, 1983. With the completion of this flight, Paul Weitz
logged a total of 793 hours in space.Main Dishes 115Individually quick frozen fully cooked roasted boneless pork loin by
Rose Packing. NASA processes the pork chop in a retort package
before use.
Stouffers frozen Macaroni and Cheese. NASA cooks and freeze
dries before use
Mountain House freeze dried noodles and chicken by Oregon Freeze
Dry
Rice and Chicken-Freeze dried rice and chicken by Oregon Freeze
Dry
Premium skinless and boneless pink salmon by Chicken of the Sea
International
Mountain House freeze dried seafood chowder by Oregon Freeze
Dry
Freeze dried spaghetti with meat sauce by Oregon Freeze Dry
Mountain House freeze dried Oriental style rice and chicken with
vegetables by Oregon Freeze Dry
Fancy albacore solid white tuna in spring water by Starkist Tuna Co
Premium chunk light tuna in spring water in pouches by Starkist
Tuna Salad Spread-Ready to eat tuna salad spread in cans by Bumble
Bee
Mountain House freeze dried turkey tetrazzini by Oregon Freeze
Dry116 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCHAPTER 7
Eat Your
Vegetables!
It’s time to say more about that ‘‘Big Question’’ mentioned in
the introduction. Lavatory facilities were absent in the Mercury,
Gemini, andApollo capsules. The first lavatory in an American
spacecraft did not appear until the Skylab space station was
launched in 1973, twenty-two years after Alan B. Shepherd
rode the first Mercury capsule into space. Shepherd would have
appreciated the lavatory. No provisions for going to the bath-
room were made for his flight. The idea was to stuff him into
the capsule, light the engines, and pluck him out of the ocean, all
in less than an hour. It didn’t work out that way. Technical
problems stretched Shepherd’s time on the launch pad to hours,
and the coffee he had before suiting up didn’t seem like such a
good idea to him after all. Ultimately, Shepherd, the first
American astronaut to fly into space, did so in wet pants.
From that flight on until the early space shuttle program,
every space suit featured a built-in UCD, or urine collection
device. The UCD was a bag and a tube. Eventually, space suit
designers concluded that adult-size diapers were much more
convenient and more reliable to use. They are now a regular part
of spaceflight.
In the very early missions, space dietitians were called on
to minimize fiber content in food to reduce the need for bowel
movements. Urinating into a bag was one thing, but bowel
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_7,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 2010119movements were a whole level of magnitude more difficult. Forget
dignity. Inside the Gemini and Apollo capsules, privacy was non-
existent. Bowel movements involved pressing a plastic bag with
adhesive strips ...you get the idea. It was best if you did not have
to go at all.
The Apollo food and beverage list did not contain any vegetables
as entre ´es. There were a couple of meat and vegetable combinations
on the list. With a lavatory installed on the Skylab space station, diets
could be changed. Efforts were made to include vegetables, but
freeze-drying was about the only preservation method available that
would meet the weight and volume restrictions of the spacecraft.
Freeze-drying vegetables met with mixed results. Although the
flavor and nutrients of vegetables were maintained, the texture was
often compromised. They freeze dried beautifully but ended up with
a very fragile structure that collapsed when handled. Some vegetables
also presented color problems when freeze-dried. Freeze dried carrots
turned white after a short storage period, and green beans were no
longer green if exposed to light for lengthy periods. On the other
hand, asparagus, green beans (if you don’t mind a color change), peas,
and corn freeze dried well. These foods have become staples in the
space food systems. Freeze-dried spinach, broccoli, and cauliflower
are also featured on space shuttle and ISS menus. Carrots and
tomatoes (really a fruit) are popular space foods, but they must be
thermostabilized to be acceptable.
Regardless of the skill in freeze-drying vegetables and packaging
them with spices and other flavorings, the optimum preservation
method for vegetables is ordinary freezing. Skylab had a freezer. In the
early designs for the International Space Station, a habitation module
was planned for one of the station’s living areas. The module was later
canceled, which was unfortunate for the space food laboratory people
and the astronauts themselves. The habitation module would have
included a food freezer. The possibilities for frozen food would have
been endless (Figure 7.1). Perhaps freezers will be added to future
space stations and lunar bases.
For now, vegetables are either freeze-dried or added to main
dishes in a thermostabilized meat entre ´e. The Russian space program
also has meat and vegetable combinations included on their food lists.
Their canned products include vegetables with chicken, beef, and
pork.120 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOK70 PERCENT
In spite of the personal preference menus, hot and cold water,
and a reliable oven for heating food, the actual intake of food on
shuttle missions average around 70 percent of the caloric
requirement determined by dietitians and doctors. Although
unappetizing food choices in the early program resulted in astronauts
under-eating, other factors are at work on shuttle missions. Due to
the short duration of shuttle missions and heavy workloads, crew
members often do not have sufficient time to eat meals. Further,
space adaptation syndrome or space motion sickness reduces food
consumption in the first few days of shuttle flights. About half of all
astronauts spend one or more shaky days adapting to microgravity.
FIGURE 7.1 Sample meal from proposed ISS frozen food system (NASA
photograph).Eat Your Vegetables! 121CHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: TASTING THINGS
OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN
One of the most pleasant—and unpleasant—experiences of
being involved in the development of space food is the
opportunity (or requirement) to taste food samples. Parti-
cularly in the early days food companies took note of the TV
advertisements for TangTMa n dS p a c eS t i c k sa n dw a n t e dt h e i r
food to go into space, too. Sometimes they called ahead, other
times they just mailed it in or personally brought it in. It is
unbelievable how many kinds of beef jerky and BBQ sauce are
o nt h em a r k e t .M a n ya r em a d ei nag a r a g e ,a n da l lc h e f sb e l i e v e
theirs to be the best. Many of the samples were good, but just not
adaptable to spaceflight. I always felt obligated to at least eval-
uate the sample and give a report. If the sample was from an
unknown source, we usually sent it to the microbiology labora-
tory before tasting. We received se v e r a l‘ ‘ n u t r i t i o u s ’ ’a l g a es a m -
ples, but I have never tasted an algae sample that was not bitter
and ghastly.
Once, a restaurant in Philadelphia arranged to send a
Hoagie sandwich to us for evaluation. A two-day-old sandwich
arrived in the middle of summer in Houston. There wasn’t any
attempt to keep it cold. I called the chef and told him I was
afraid to taste it because of the lack of refrigeration. It had all
the components for a good case of food poisoning. He said not
to worry, he sent them out all the time and no one had gotten
sick or died. I still refused to taste it and disposed of it. Later,
he wrote to his congressman complaining that I refused to
taste his sandwich. NASA had to respond to a congressional
inquiry—lots of paperwork!
THE WCS1
For some reason, NASA never likes to use direct language
when a technical-sounding acronym can be used. WCS
means waste collection system—the toilet. Space toilets122 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKoperate on a vacuum principle. Urine is drawn into a tube
with air suction. Solid waste is also drawn away with air suction,
and it ends up in a tank where it is dried and compacted. Although
looking more like a Rube Goldberg device than a traditional toilet,
the WCS does have a seat and a urine tube that resembles part of a
goose-neck lamp. There are levers and switches and spring-
mounted thigh bars that keep crew members from drifting away
from the seat (Figure 7.2).
FIGURE 7.2 Astronaut David Walker demonstrating the Shuttle potty.
It works by using air instead of water to move materials (NASA
photograph).Eat Your Vegetables! 123PEA BARS
NASA and the US Army’s Natick Soldier System Center have
always worked closely. They share many of the same food
development goals, such as extended shelf life and con-
sumption in extreme situations. It has been a beneficial,
although not always successful, collaboration. Natick developed
some new vegetable bars. NASA immediately saw the potential and
flew them on the American/Soviet Apollo-Soyuz mission in 1975.
The bars were made by compressing partially dried spinach or peas
under high pressure. They were then freeze-dried to remove any
remaining moisture. In the end the spinach and peas retained their
bright color and looked delicious. Their small size made them ideal
for stowing in the cramped Apollo capsule. All the crew needed to
do was to rehydrate. Unfortunately, rehydration is a lot harder to do
well in microgravity than on Earth. The taste and texture was ‘ ‘less
than desired,’’ and pea and spinach bars never flew again.
SS ASPARAGUS (FIGURE 7.3)
2 lb fresh asparagus
4 cups water3¼ tsp salt
1/4 tsp monosodium glutamate
1. Rinse asparagus in running water and cut/break into 1- to 2-
in. pieces.
2. Add salt and monosodium glutamate to water and bring to
boil.
3. Add asparagus and cook for 11–15 minutes, until tender.
4. Drain and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Asparagus by freeze drying
prior to use in space.
If you were making the asparagus for space food, you would have
to break the asparagus by hand rather than cutting it up with a knife.
The first shipment of Skylab asparagus from the contractor was cut,124 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKFIGURE 7.3 Asparagus.
and it turned out to be tough and stringy. The shipment was rejected,
and the contractor had to produce more that was acceptable.
SS BLACK BEANS (FIGURE 7.4)
29 oz canned black beans, liquid
reserved
4 oz canned crushed tomatoes
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/4 tsp oregano
1/4 tsp black pepper1/4 tsp salt
3 tbsp canned green chilies,
roasted, peeled, and diced
1 medium onion, diced
1/2 tsp garlic, chopped
1. Drain and measure liquid from beans; save half of the liquid
for later use.
2. Combine crushed tomatoes, including liquid, cumin, ore-
gano, black pepper, and salt and mix well.
3. Combine tomato mixture, green chilies, including liquid,
onions, garlic, drained black beans, and reserved bean juice.
4. Heat to a boil and cook until onions are tender. Serve warm.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Black Beans by thermo-
processing in a retort pouch.Eat Your Vegetables! 125SS CARROT COINS
1/3 cup water
1 tsp National 150 filling aid starch
from National Starch and
Chemical Co (You may substitute
cornstarch for this)1/4 tsp salt
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1½ lb of carrots, sliced into rounds
1. Combine starch and salt with 1 tbsp of the water.
2. Add remaining water and butter to a saucepan and heat to
melt butter.
3. Add starch and salt mixture, and mix well.
4. Add carrots, mix well, and heat on medium high, covered,
until carrots are tender, about 15 minutes.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Carrot Coins by thermo-pro-
cessing them in a retort pouch.
FIGURE 7.4 Black beans.126 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS CORN (FIGURE 7.5)
1 lb package frozen corn
3 tbsp butter flavor granules such
as Butter Buds SprinklesTM2½ tsp instant CLEARJEL starch
from National Starch and
Chemical*
1 tsp dried parsley
Cook corn per manufacturer directions. Add butter granules,
starch, and parsley and mix well and serve.
Yield: 5 servings
*The added starch aids consumption in microgravity and may not
be needed for 1 G consumption.
Note: NASA produces SS Corn by freeze drying the corn and
then adding each dry ingredient to the individual serving
package
FIGURE 7.5 Corn.Eat Your Vegetables! 127SS GREEN BEANS AND POTATOES
1½ tsp National 150 filling aid
starch from National Starch and
Chemical Co. Can substitute
cornstarch
1 tsp salt
1/4 tsp coarse ground black pepper1/2 cup water
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 16 oz package frozen green beans
1 cup diced red potatoes
1. Mix starch, salt, and pepper with 2 tbsp of the water and mix
well.
2. Put remaining water and butter in a saucepan and heat to
melt butter.
3. Add green beans and potatoes and heat to boiling; simmer
until beans and potatoes are fork tender.
4. Add starch, salt, and pepper mixture to beans, mix well, and
simmer for 2 minutes.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Green Beans and Potatoes by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.
SS HOMESTYLE POTATOES
3 cups diced hash-brown potatoes
1/3 cup red bell peppers, diced
1/4 cup green bell peppers, diced
2 tbsp fire-roasted Anaheim green
chili peppers, diced1/3 cup onions, diced
2 tbsp olive oil
3/4 tsp seasoned salt
2 tsp ground black pepper
1. Combine potatoes, red and green bell peppers, green
chilies, and onions in a saucepan and mix well.
2. Combine oil, salt, and pepper, mix well, and add to the potato
mixture.
3. Toss and coat potatoes evenly. Heat on medium heat,
stirring occasionally until potatoes are tender.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Homestyle Potatoes by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.128 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS MIXED VEGETABLES
1½ lb frozen mixed vegetables
1/2 tbsp National 150 filling starch
from National Starch and
Chemical Co. Not required
unless thermoprocessing.1/2 tsp salt
1/4 tsp coarse ground black pepper
1/3 cup water
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1. Thaw mixed vegetables in refrigerator in advance.
2. Combine starch, salt, and pepper with 1 tbsp water. Add
remaining water and butter to a saucepan and heat to melt
butter.
3. Add mixed vegetables, mix well and heat on medium heat
with cover until vegetables are tender. Add starch, salt and
pepper mixture and mix well, and simmer for 2 minutes.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Mixed Vegetables by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.
SS POTATO MEDLEY (FIGURE 7.6)
2 tbsp olive oil
2 tbsp balsamic vinegar
1/2 tsp fresh thyme, chopped
2 tsp garlic, chopped
2 oz fat-free chicken
broth2 cups 1-in. sweet potatoes, peeled
and cubed
2 cups 3/4-in. russet potatoes,
peeled and diced
1½ cups skin-on 3/4-in. red
potatoes, diced
1. Preheat oven to 450 8F
2. Combine olive oil, balsamic vinegar, thyme, garlic, and
chicken broth; mix well.
3. Add oil mixture to potatoes, and toss to coat. Place potato
mixture in a baking dish and bake until potatoes are tender,
approximately 30 minutes. Serve hot.
Yield: 6 servingsEat Your Vegetables! 129FIGURE 7.6 Potato Medley.
Note: NASA further processes the Potato Medley by thermo-
processing it in a flexible pouch.
SS RICE PILAF
4 cups water
2 cups Riviana Foods Foodservice
Rice Pilaf3 tbsp butter
Cook rice pilaf, butter, and water per manufacturer’s directions
and serve.
Yield: 8 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Rice Pilaf by freeze drying
before use.130 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS SPICY GREEN BEANS
2 tsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp fresh jalapenos, diced
5 tsp garlic, chopped
2 tsp ground turmeric
2 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp cayenne pepper
1½ lb frozen extra fine whole green
beans (haricots verts). May
substitute with fresh.2 tsp salt
2½ tbsp water
2 tbsp sesame seeds
1 tsp Ultra-Sperse M modified
starch from National Starch and
Chemical Co. Not required for
home use.
1. Heat saucepan and add vegetable oil.
2. Add chopped jalapeno and garlic to saucepan and saute ´.
3. Add turmeric, cumin, and cayenne and mix vigorously.
4. Add green beans, salt, and water. Mix well to coat the green
beans with the spice mixture.
5. Heat to simmer, add sesame seeds, mix well, and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Spicy Green Beans by freeze
drying before use.
EMERIL’S SPICY GREEN BEANS WITH GARLIC
(FIGURE 7.7)
1/4 cup clarified butter or vegetable oil
3 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
2 small green peppers (such as
jalapeno or serrano), stems and
seeds removed, minced
2 tsp turmeric powder2 tsp ground cumin
1/8 tsp cayenne
1 lb green beans, tough ends
removed
1/4 cup water
1½ tsp salt
3 tbsp sesame seeds
1. In a large saute ´pan, heat the butter over medium-high heat.
2. Add the garlic slivers, peppers, turmeric, cumin, and cay-
enne, and cook, stirring, until the garlic begins to turn
golden, about 2 minutes.
3. Add the green beans, water, salt, and stir well.Eat Your Vegetables! 1314. Cover and cook over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally,
until the beans are tender, 4–5 minutes.
5. Add the sesame seeds and cook, uncovered, stirring until
toasted, 2–3 minutes.
6. Remove from the heat and adjust seasoning to taste.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Spicy
Green Beans with Garlic by freeze drying.
FIGURE 7.7 Emeril’s spicy green beans with garlic.132 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS SQUASH CASSEROLE
1½ lb frozen squash, sliced (may
substitute fresh)
1 medium onion, diced
1 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp egg substitute such as Egg
BeatersTM1/2 tsp salt
1/4 tsp ground black pepper
1 tbsp sugar
1/4 cup packaged cornbread
stuffing
1. Preheat convection oven to 500 8F. Place squash into a
baking dish that has been lightly sprayed with non-stick
vegetable cooking spray.
2. Roast squash for approximately 30 minutes or until squash
starts to brown.
3. Place onions into a baking dish that has been lightly sprayed
with nonstick vegetable cooking spray.
4. Roast onions for approximately 10 minutes, or until onions
start to brown.
5. Combine roasted onions with roasted squash and butter. Mix
until the butter is melted and distributed evenly.
6. Combine the egg product, salt, black pepper, and sugar
and set aside. Combine squash mixture, egg mixture, and
cornbread stuffing.
7. Place in a baking dish and heat at 350 8F for 10 minutes.
Yield: serves 6
Note: NASA further processes the Squash Casserole by retorting
in a flexible pouch.
RACHAEL RAY’S VEGETABLE CURRY IN A HURRY
3 tbsp olive oil, divided
1½ cups Basmati rice
4 cups chicken or vegetable stock,
divided
1 bay leaf, fresh or dried
Zest of 1 lemon
1 tsp turmeric
2 tsp coriander
2 tsp cumin
1/2 tsp cardamom, optional1 tbsp butter
1 medium onion, thinly sliced
3 cloves garlic, chopped
1 small head cauliflower, chopped
1 firm eggplant, peeled and
chopped (You can peel away only
half of the skin if you like the
color and texture.)
1 red bell pepper, seeded and
choppedEat Your Vegetables! 1331 14-oz can diced tomatoes,
drained
1 15-oz can of chick peas, drained
Salt and pepper
3 tbsp mild or hot curry paste
3 tbsp mango chutney3 scallions, chopped, for garnish
A handful of cilantro or parsley, for
garnish
Toasted slivered almonds or pieces
of cashew, for garnish
1. Heat a medium pot over medium heat with olive oil. Add rice
and toast a minute or two.
2. Add 3 cups chicken or vegetable stock and the bay leaf,
lemon zest, turmeric, coriander, cumin, and cardamom.
3. Cover pot and bring rice to a boil. Reduce the heat and
simmer for 18 minutes.
4. Fluff rice with a fork, remove bay leaf, and add butter. Toss to
coat the rice evenly, then serve.
5. While rice cooks, make the vegetables. Heat a deep non-
stick skillet over medium high heat with 2 tbsp of olive oil.
6. Add onion, garlic, cauliflower, eggplant, and bell pepper. Cover
and cook, stirring occasionally for 7–8 minutes, until tender.
7. Uncover and add the tomatoes, chick peas, salt, pepper,
curry paste, chutney, and remaining cup of chicken or
vegetable stock. Simmer 6–7 minutes longer.
Serve curry with scoops of rice on top. You can use an ice cream
scoop to portion it. If you put the rice on top, it will not get mushy.
Garnish with scallions, cilantro, or parsley and nuts.
Yield: 4 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Vegetable
Curry by freeze drying.
SS SUGAR SNAP PEAS
3½ cups fresh stringless sugar
snap peas
1/3 cup water
1 tbsp butter
2/3 tsp salt1 tsp National 150 filling starch (or
cornstarch)
1/4 tsp ground black pepper
1. Add all ingredients except the starch to a medium pot.
2. Heat to boiling, reduce heat to simmer, and cook until peas
are tender.134 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOK3. The starch is used for retorting and not essential; however, if
desired, add a teaspoon of cornstarch to 3 tbsp of water and
add to the heating mixture.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Sugar Snap Peas by thermo-
processing in a flexible pouch.
SS TOFU WITH HOT MUSTARD SAUCE
1 Napa cabbage
18 oz tofu extra firm silken style
1/3 cup balsamic vinegar
1/4 cup plus 1 tbsp hot bottled
mustard
1/2 tsp peanut oil
dash cayenne pepper2 tsp dried onions, minced
4 tsp garlic, minced
1 tbsp modified food starch
(cornstarch may be substituted)
1/4 cup unsulfured molasses
1. Wash cabbage thoroughly. Trim cabbage ends and cut into
1-in. by 2-in. pieces. Allow cabbage to dry.
2. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
3. Cut tofu into1/2-in. cubes. Transfer tofu to a baking sheet
that has been sprayed with a vegetable cooking spray.
4. Bake tofu for 12–15 minutes and set aside.
5. Add ¼ cup balsamic vinegar, hot mustard, peanut oil, cay-
enne pepper, onion, and garlic to a saucepan and mix well.
6. Add cabbage and heat to simmer, stirring occasionally.
7. Combine starch and remaining balsamic vinegar, stir well,
and add to the saucepan. Simmer for 3–5 minutes.
8. Add molasses to the mixture and mix well. Add tofu and mix
gently.
9. Continue to heat until cabbage is tender, about 15 minutes.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Tofu with Hot Mustard Sauce
by retorting in a flexible pouch.Eat Your Vegetables! 135SS TOFU WITH HOISIN SAUCE
1 Napa cabbage
18 oz tofu extra firm silken style
1 tbsp low sodium soy sauce
1 tbsp modified food starch
(cornstarch may be substituted)
1/4 cup rice wine1 tbsp ketchup
3 tsp garlic, minced
4 tsp light brown sugar
1/3 cup Hoisin sauce (available in
the Asian section of your
supermarket)
1. Wash cabbage thoroughly. Trim ends and cut into 1-in. by
2-in. pieces. Allow cabbage to dry.
2. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
3. Cut tofu into1/2-in. cubes. Transfer tofu to a baking sheet
that has been sprayed with a vegetable cooking spray.
4. Bake tofu at 350 8F for 12–15 minutes and set aside.
5. Combine the soy sauce and starch and set aside. Add rice
wine to a saucepan followed by the ketchup and garlic.
6. Heat to simmer, stirring occasionally.
7. Stir the starch slurry and add to the saucepan.
8. Continuously mix and simmer for 3–5 minutes.
9. Add brown sugar and Hoisin sauce and mix to combine.
10. Add tofu and mix gently.
11. Add cabbage, cover, and heat until cabbage is tender, about
15 minutes.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Tofu with Hoisin Sauce by
retorting in a flexible pouch.
SS TOMATOES AND EGGPLANT
1½ tbsp water
1 tbsp modified food starch or
cornstarch
1 16.5-oz can of diced tomatoes
1 cup diced zucchini
1 medium yellow onion, diced
3/4 cup peeled and diced eggplant
1/3 cup diced red pepper
1/3 cup diced green pepper
1/4 cup tomato juice2 tbsp tomato paste
2 tbsp olive oil
2 tsp chopped garlic in water (may
substitute fresh)
1 ½ tsp salt
1/2 tsp coarse ground black pepper
1/4 tsp dried basil
1/4 tsp dried oregano
Pinch of coriander, ground
coriander seed136 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOK1. In a container mix water and starch and set aside.
2. In a saucepan combine all other ingredients and mix well.
3. Add starch mixture and bring to boil. Cook 5–7 minutes, until
eggplant and zucchini are tender.
Yield: 8 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Tomatoes and Eggplant by
placing it in a retort package and thermally processing. Overcook-
i n gi sr e q u i r e dt om a k et h i sr e c i p es i m i l a rt ot h eN A S Ap r o d u c t .
The following are some of the astronauts’ own favorite recipes.
KEN REIGHTLER’S CORN PUDDING
1 16-oz can of corn, cream style
1 16-oz can of corn, whole kernel
style
3 eggs, beaten
1 13-oz can of evaporated milk1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt
2 tsp cornstarch or flour
Garlic and lemon to suit your taste
2 tbsp butter
Mix ingredients together and dot butter on top. Bake at 350 8F
in a 2-quart casserole for about 2 hours (or until a knife can
be inserted and comes out clean). Serve warm. Great
reheated!
RHEA SEDDON’S DILLED GREEN BEANS
2 cups sugar
1 cup apple cider vinegar
4 tbsp vegetable oil2 tbsp onion, finely chopped
1 tbsp mixed dill seed and dill weed
4 cans whole green beans
1. Combine sugar, vinegar, vegetable oil, onion, and mixed dill
seed and weed in a saucepan and boil for 5 minutes.
2. Pour over the green beans and marinate in the refrigerator
for at least 3 days, stirring occasionally. Serve cold or at
room temperature.
Simple, quick, delicious—just what a busy astronaut
mom needs!Eat Your Vegetables! 137MILLIE HUGHES-FULFORD’S EGGPLANT
1 large eggplant, washed and cut
into disks
Cooking sprayGarlic salt
1. Spray one side of the eggplant slices with cooking spray.
2. Shake a little garlic salt (such as Lowery’s with parsley) on
sprayed side.
3. Place sprayed side down on stovetop grill plate (or large
skillet) on medium high heat. While cooking lightly spray
cooking spray on unsalted side of eggplant just before
turning over (about 2 minutes, or until cooked)
4. Grill other side about 2 minutes.
5. Serve.
Meet the Astronaut: Rhea Seddon, STS-51D,
STS-40, STS-58
Dr. Rhea Seddon received a Bachelor of Arts degree in
physiology from the University of California, Berkeley, in
1970, a doctorate of medicine from the University of Ten-
nessee College of Medicine in 1973, and was selected as an
astronaut candidate in 1978. She was among the first females
selected for the astronaut program. A three-flight veteran
with over 722 hours in space, Dr. Seddon was a Mission
Specialist on STS-51D (1985) and STS-40 (1991), and was
the Payload Commander on STS-58 (1993). Dr. Seddon
has an interest in nutrition and was a member of the design
and development team for the shuttle flight food hardware.
She is married to former astronaut Robert L. Gibson.138 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKWhat You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
Frozen broccoli and cheese by Birds Eye Foods. NASA cooks and freeze
dries before use.
Parboiled long grain brown rice in retort pouches by Lambert Street
Packaging.
Frozen cauliflower with cheese sauce by Green Giant plus frozen cauli-
flower florets. NASA cooks and freeze-dries before use.
Green Giant frozen creamed spinach by General Mills. NASA cooks and
freeze-dries before use.
Frozen Garden Blend Italian Style vegetables by Kroger. Balsamic
vinaigrette dressing by Kraft. NASA freeze-dries before use.
Dehydrated potato pearls by Basic American Foods.
Stouffers frozen potatoes au gratin by Nestle. NASA cooks and freeze-
dries before use.
Rice with Butter MRE by Wornick Foods.
Create a meal stir fry teriyaki by Green Giant. NASA cooks and freeze
dries before use.
Freeze dried brown rice with vegetables and mushrooms by Adventure
Foods.
Meet the Astronaut: Millie Hughes-Fulford, STS-40
Dr. Hughes-Fulford entered college at the age of 16 and
earned her BS degree in Chemistry and Biology from Tar-
leton State University in 1968. She completed her doctorate
degree at Texas Woman’s University in 1972. She was
selected as a Payload Specialist by NASA in January 1983.
Dr. Hughes-Fulford flew in June 1991 aboard STS-40
Spacelab Life Sciences (SLS 1), the first Spacelab mission
dedicated to biomedical studies. The SLS-1 mission flew
over 3.2 million miles in 146 orbits, and its crew completed
over eighteen experiments during a nine-day period, bringing
back more medical data than any previous NASA flight.Eat Your Vegetables! 139CHAPTER 8
Desserts
What would travel in space be like without dessert? Certainly
less appealing. Most astronauts have the same cravings for
sweets as the rest of us. The formula is simple. Astronauts
plus desserts equal happy crews. OK, maybe that is a bit of an
exaggeration. Spaceflight itself is enough to make any astronaut
happy, but desserts do contribute to missions by helping crew
unwind after intensive days. The problem is that not all desserts
are equal. M&Ms might be the perfect complement to a meal
one evening, but the next day it has to be cake!
Some desserts pose real challenges for space—especially
cake. Though light in weight, a real plus for spaceflight, cake’s
volume is a problem. Cake is full of bubbles. If you flatten a slice
of cake in a vacuum bag many of its charms will be destroyed.
NASA’s food laboratory staff spent a great deal of time experi-
menting with cakes and was able to extend their shelf life by
irradiation. Of course, purely for scientific purposes, they had to
sample them frequently to ensure their flavor. The one thing
they could not overcome was the packaging and stowage
problems.
Flight crews are not totally cake deprived. During their
brief stay in the quarantine quarters at the Kennedy Space
Center, a beautiful cake, decorated with their crew patch, is
prepared by the quarantine facility staff. Some crews gobble it
up on the spot, and others decide to eat it upon their return
from space during a post-landing party.
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_8,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 2010141By default, many of the space fo od desserts are commercially
produced. Discovered in commercia l vending machines, cellophane-
wrapped desserts have excellent she lf life properties. Though not as
tasty as fresh-baked cake, there is no such thing as a bad dessert in space.
All that is necessary is to repackage them into flight approved packages.
One popular desert is the commercial individual serving of
pudding. These, one would think, would not have to be repackaged.
They should be the food laboratory’s version of a slam-dunk. Not so.
NASA flight and safety rules, by necessity, can be withering. You
don’t just say, ‘‘Fly this.’’ Individual pudding servings demonstrate
what can happen during the flight certification process.
Commercial puddings were first marketed in steel cans. The cans
had to be measured, heated, probed, and otherwise abused to see what
would happen to them in potential worst-case spaceflight scenarios.
They even had to pose for engineering drawings before they could be
approved. All space food items have special drawings made, just as if
they were a bolt or other piece of flight hardware. After the steel can
pudding servings were approved and flown, the companies making the
puddings got the bright idea to package them in aluminum cans. That
meant starting over and going back to the drawing board—literally.
After recertification, the pudding companies got another bright idea—
plastic. Back to the drawing board again!
Ice cream, though rare in space, is probably the most popular
astronaut dessert when it is available. The Skylab space station had a
freezer, and one of the frozen foods it held was ice cream. On
occasion, small freezers have been flown on the space shuttle. Free-
zers are sometimes needed for medical and scientific experiment
samples that have to be preserved exactly ‘‘as is’’ for analysis back on
Earth. Purely to ensure that these freezers are ready to receive
samples in space, crews insist they be powered up prior to launch.
Of course, freezers are more energy efficient when they are filled. Ice
cream is the ideal energy-saving freezer filler. Right!
CHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: WHAT GOES
AROUND COMES AROUND
With the replacement of the plastic box with easily com-
pressed vacuum sealed plastic bags for food items, the shuttle
food tray design seemed like overkill. It was a bulky tray with142 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKfriction slots for boxes, and it didn’t stow well in the galley. A group of
shuttle astronauts came to the food lab to discuss their concept for a
new and improved food tray. The idea was that the tray would be a flat
piece of metal with Velcro patches and long springs to hold the food,
beverages, and condiments on the tray. I asked to be excused for a
moment and went to the back room and pulled out a 1975 Apollo-
Soyuz meal tray; flat metal, Velcro patches, springs and all, and
showed it to them. After a few jaw drops, they responded ‘ ‘Yes, that
is what we had in mind. Where did you get that?’ ’ It was a priceless
moment. By the way, similar trays are still being used! (Figure 8.1).
FIGURE 8.1 Astronaut William MacArthur sipping a beverage with the
current Shuttle meal tray strapped to his leg (NASA photograph).Desserts 143SALT AND IRON
Astronauts tend to be a very healthy group. It can take years
of training before being assigned to a mission. Maintaining
health while waiting to fly is of great importance, and astro-
nauts do their best to eat properly and get plenty of exercise.
In space, astronauts eat nutritionally balanced menus and continue
to exercise. There are some changes, however. Space menus tend
to be higher in sodium and iron. This can be partially attributed to
the use of many high sodium commercially product-based menu
items and, in particular, commercial bread and cereal products
enriched with iron. The requirement for shelf stable foods also
affects sodium content, because sodium helps with preservation
as well as enhancing flavor. But lower sodium intakes are desirable
for astronauts in space to reduce bone loss. Less iron is needed
due to normal reduced blood volume and red blood cell turnover
that occurs in microgravity. So a balance must be achieved.
WANDERING M&MS
Wanting a bedtime snack, shuttle astronaut Bill Thornton
quietly opened a package of M&M’s. Some got away from him
in the dimmed cabin light. In an M&Ms’ version of billiards, the
candies kept pinging him in the face as he was trying to sleep.
ASTRONAUT ICE CREAM
You will find silvery pouches of ‘ ‘Astronaut Ice Cream’ ’ over-
flowing in bins in just about every science and aerospace
museum in the country. For a couple of dollars, you, too,
can enjoy the dessert sensation of the space program. Well,
not quite. Inside the package is a dry and brittle brick of freeze-
dried Neopolitan ice cream.
Freeze-dried ice cream is a real space food that never made it
big in space. It was developed by the Whirlpool Corporation by
special crew request for the Apollo program. Astronauts missed144 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKice cream on long missions. Pouches of freeze-dried ice cream
were flown on the Apollo 7 mission in 1968. It was the first and last
time it flew in space. The dry bricks softened with saliva and tasted
remarkably like ice cream, but the creamy, icy sensation of regular
ice cream was missing. It just wasn’t popular with flight crews.
That’s when a marketing genius got the idea of selling astronaut ice
cream to the public. The rest is history. It has become a top-selling
item in museum gift shops all around the world.
LYOPHILIZATION, OR HOW TO MAKE ASTRONAUT
ICE CREAM
Freeze-drying, or lyophilization, is a process that removes
moisture from food. To make astronaut ice cream, start with
a thick slice of your favorite ice cream. Place it in a vacuum
chamber and start pumping out the air to form a partial
vacuum. Then, turn on the heat to increase the vaporization rate.
The water in the ice cream begins to vaporize and is trapped by a
freezing coil. The process is slow, so have a good book handy. After
several hours, all of the moisture in the ice cream has been
extracted, and a crunchy brick of dry ice cream remains.
BLUE TONGUE SYNDROME
Astronauts have always had a shaky relationship with flight
surgeons. Although no astronaut will ever disagree that
flight surgeons are important to their well being, flight phy-
sicals are approached with some trepidation. Flight sur-
geons can ground astronauts if they suspect medical problems.
Mercury astronaut Deke Slayton missed his Mercury flight due to a
heart condition, and Alan Shepherd was grounded after his flight
for an ear problem. Both waited many years before they were
returned to flight status. Ken Mattingly was prevented from flying
onApollo 13 (mixed blessing) because of his exposure to German
measles. He never got the disease.Desserts 145During their final pre-launch physicals, an entire space shut-
tle crew was told by a flight surgeon that they would be grounded.
Something was going through the crew. They all had blue tongues.
The surgeon was right about something going through the crew.
Just prior to their physicals, they had gobbled up their mission cake
(with blue frosting) at the quarantine quarters!
SS APRICOT COBBLER
9-in. frozen pie crust
18 oz frozen sliced apricots
1/4 cup water
1½ tsp natural strength lemon juice3/4 cup plus 1 tbsp extra fine
granulated sugar
2 tbsp quick cooking tapioca
1. Preheat oven to 400 8F and bake piecrust approximately 12
minutes, or until golden brown.
2. Allow piecrust to cool, and break into ¼ in. pieces and set aside.
3. Add the apricots, water, and lemon juice to a saucepan and
heat on medium while stirring.
4. After apricots are thawed, add the sugar and tapioca and
heat to boiling while stirring.
5. Continue heating 12–15 minutes until apricots are tender.
6. Cool and add the piecrust pieces and mix well.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Apricot Cobbler by placing the
mixture and crust in a retort pouch and thermo-processing.146 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS BREAD PUDDING (FIGURE 8.2)
5½ oz whole loaf French bread
13/4cup skim milk
3/4 cup egg substitute (such as Egg
BeatersTM)1 tbsp pure vanilla extract
1 cup plus 1 tbsp extra fine
granulated sugar
Pinch ground cinnamon
4 tbsp unsalted butter
1. Cut French bread into 1 in. cubes and set aside.
2. Add milk, eggs, and vanilla to the saucepan, stir, and begin
heating on medium heat.
3. Add sugar and cinnamon and continue stirring.
4. Melt butter and add to the mixture.
5. Add the bread cubes and mix well.
6. Transfer to a baking dish coated with vegetable spray and
bake at 325 8F for 50–55 minutes, or until the top is light
golden brown.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA does not do the baking step, but further processes
the Bread Pudding by placing the bread cubes and custard in a
retort pouch and thermo-processing it in the pouch.
FIGURE 8.2 Bread pudding.Desserts 147SS BUTTERSCOTCH PUDDING IN POUCHES
2 cups whole milk
1 cup water
3/4 cup extra fine granulated
sugar
4 tbsp modified food starch. May be
substituted for with cornstarch
1/2 tsp natural and artificial
butterscotch flavor1/4tsp salt
2 drops caramel artificial, liquid
caramel color #525 from D.D.
Williamson
1 drop yellow artificial liquid egg
color
1. Combine starch, sugar, and salt. Mix well.
2. Add 1½ cup milk and water to a saucepan and heat to boiling.
Remove from heat.
3. Add remaining milk to the starch mixture, mix well and add
to the heated milk mixture.
4. Add yellow color, caramel color, and butterscotch flavor.
5. Mix well and transfer to serving dishes and chill.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Butterscotch Pudding by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.148 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS CHERRY BLUEBERRY COBBLER
1 cup yellow cake mix
3 tsp pecans, chopped
2 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp modified food starch
(cornstarch may be substituted)
2 tbsp lemon juice, natural
strength12 oz dark sweet cherries
7 tbsp extra fine granulated
sugar
8 oz blueberries
1¼ tsp almond extract, pure or
imitation
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Combine cake mix and chopped pecans in a bowl.
3. Melt butter and add to the cake mixture. Blend until mix-
ture is moist and cohesive.
4. Press blended mixture evenly onto baking sheets lined with
foil. Do not exceed ¼ in. depth.
5. Bake for 8 minutes, or until golden brown. Remove cooked
dough with foil and allow to cool.
6. Cut cooled crust into approximately 2-in. by 3-in. pieces.
7. Combine starch and lemon juice to make a slurry.
8. Add cherries to a saucepan and heat until juice begins to
release. Add sugar to cherries and mix well. Heat cherry-
sugar mixture to simmer, stirring occasionally.
9. Stir the starch slurry and add to the cherry-sugar mixture.
10. Add blueberries and continue heating and stirring to sim-
mer; hold for 3–5 minutes. Add almond extract.
11. To serve, pour the cherry mixture over the crust pieces.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Cherry-Blueberry Cobbler by
placing the mixture and crust in a retort pouch and thermo-
processing.Desserts 149SS CHOCOLATE PUDDING CAKE (FIGURE 8.3)
3/4 cup Devil’s Food cake mix
3 tbsp unsalted butter
13/4cups skim milk
1 tsp vanilla extract
2 tbsp modified food starch
(cornstarch may be substituted)1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa
3/4 cup plus 2 tbsp extra fine
granulated sugar
2 oz semisweet chocolate chips
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Transfer cake mix to a bowl.
3. Melt 2 tbsp butter and add to the cake mixture.
4. Blend until mixture is moist and cohesive.
5. Press blended mixture evenly onto baking sheets lined with
foil. Do not exceed ¼ in. depth.
6. Bake for 8 minutes. Remove cooked dough with foil and
allow to cool.
7. Cut cooled crust into approximately 2-in. by 3-in. pieces.
8. Combine¼cupmilk,vanilla,andstarch. Mixwellandsetaside.
9. Add remaining milk, sugar, cocoa, and butter to a sauce-
pan. Mix well and begin heating on medium heat.
10. Add chocolate chips to pan, stirring until melted.
FIGURE 8.3 Chocolate pudding cake.150 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOK11. Stir starch slurry and add to the mixture. Heat to boiling
and remove from heat.
12. To serve, pour chocolate sauce over the crust pieces.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Chocolate Pudding Cake by
placing the mixture and crust in a retort pouch and thermo-
processing.
SS CHOCOLATE PUDDING IN POUCHES
3 tbsp modified food starch
(cornstarch may be substituted)
3 tbsp cocoa powder
3/4 cup extra fine granulated sugar¼ tsp salt
2 cups whole milk
1 cup water
1. Combine starch, cocoa, sugar, and salt. Mix well.
2. Add 1½ cups milk and water to a saucepan, heat to boiling,
and remove from heat.
3. Add remaining milk to the starch mixture, mix well, and add
to the heated milk mixture.
4. Mix well, transfer to serving dishes, and chill.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Chocolate Pudding by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.Desserts 151SS CRANAPPLE DESSERT
2/3 cup canned pineapple tidbits in
unsweetened pineapple juice
1/2 lb Golden Delicious apples,
peeled and sliced
1/2 lb whole cranberries
1/2 cup rolled oats
1/4 cup blanched sliced almonds1 tbsp modified food starch
(cornstarch may be substituted)
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1/2 cup apple juice
1/2 cup light brown sugar
2 tbsp maple syrup
1 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tsp pure vanilla extract
1. Pour off juice from canned pineapple and discard.
2. Combine pineapple, apples, and cranberries. Mix well. Set
aside.
3. Combine oats and almonds. Mix well. Set aside.
4. Combine starch, cinnamon, and 1 tbsp apple juice and mix
well. Set aside.
5. Add the remaining apple juice, brown sugar, maple syrup,
and butter to a saucepan and begin heating on medium heat.
6. Add the apple juice starch mixture while stirring.
7. Heat mixture to simmer and add vanilla
8. Add pineapple, apples, cranberries, oats, and almonds and
heat to boiling. Simmer 5–7 minutes until apples and cran-
berries are tender.
Yield: Serves 6
Note: NASA further processes the Cranapple Dessert by
thermo-processing in a retort pouch.152 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKEMERIL’S MIXED FRUIT PANDOWDY
2 Golden Delicious or Granny Smith
apples, peeled and sliced into 1/
2-in. thick pieces
2 pears, such as Anjou, peeled and
sliced into 1/2-in. thick pieces
4 nectarines or peaches, pitted and
sliced into 1/2-in. thick pieces
2 plums, pitted and sliced into 1/2-
in. thick pieces
1 cup strawberries, rinsed and
patted dry, hulled, and quartered1/2 cup blackberries, rinsed and
patted dry
2 tsp fresh lemon juice
2 tsp cornstarch
1/2 cup plus 1 tbsp sugar or maple
syrup
1/4 tsp ground cloves
1/8 tsp ground nutmeg
Pinch salt
1½ tbsp unsalted butter
1. Preheat the oven to 400 8F.
2. In a large mixing bowl combine the apples, pears, nectar-
ines, plums, strawberries, and blackberries with the lemon
juice and cornstarch and toss to combine.
3. Add 1/2 cup sugar, cloves, nutmeg, and salt and stir well.
4. Butter a deep pie dish or a 9-by-12-in. baking dish with 1/2
tbsp of the butter. Transfer the fruit mixture to the buttered
dish, and dot the top of the fruit mixture with the remaining
tablespoon of butter.
5. Bake the fruit, uncovered, about 30 minutes. Remove from
the oven. Let cool 15–20 minutes.
Yield: 6–8 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Mixed
Fruit Pandowdy by freeze drying.Desserts 153SS RICE PUDDING (FIGURE 8.4)
1 tbsp salted butter
2/3 cup golden raisins
1 tbsp rum extract
1/4 tsp fresh vanilla bean seed from
the pod
1/2 cup uncooked long grain white
rice3/4 cup water
1/2 cup light brown sugar
1/3 cup egg substitute, such as Egg
BeatersTM
1/4 tsp salt
1 1/3 cups whole milk
1. Prepare one baking pan (1100/C28½00/C2300) by coating with
butter. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Measure raisins, rum extract, and vanilla bean seed. Mix
well and set aside.
3. Measure rice and water, and prepare per package directions.
Cook rice approximately 20–25 minutes. Set aside to cool.
4. Measure brown sugar, egg product, and salt. Combine
ingredients and mix well with a wire whisk.
5. Measure and add milk to this mixture.
6. Combine the milk mixture, raisins, and cooked rice in a
container.
FIGURE 8.4 Rice pudding.154 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOK7. Pour the mixture into the buttered pan, using a large spatula
to spread it evenly throughout the pan.
8. Bake for approximately 30 minutes. Remove the pan from
the oven and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Rice Pudding by freeze drying.
EMERIL’S RICE PUDDING WITH RUM RAISINS
3/4 cup golden raisins
2 tbsp rum extract
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 cup water
1/2 cup uncooked long-grain white
rice1 tbsp unsalted butter
1½ cups whole milk
1/2 cup light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1/8 tsp salt
1. Place the raisins in a small bowl.
2. In a small saucepan heat the rum over medium heat. Pour
the warm rum over the raisins, cover, and let soak at least 30
minutes and up to 2 hours. Drain.
3. Scrape the vanilla beans into a small ramekin and
reserve.
4. Combine water, rice, and vanilla bean pod in a heavy, med-
ium saucepan. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-
low and simmer, covered, until the rice is tender and the
liquid is absorbed, about 20 minutes.
5. Uncover rice, discard the vanilla bean, and let cool.
6. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
7. Butter one large (6- to 8-cup) souffle ´dish with the table-
spoon of butter, and place inside a roasting pan.
8. In a large bowl whisk together the milk, brown sugar,
eggs, egg yolk, salt, and reserved vanilla seeds. Stir in
the raisins and 1½ cups cooked rice. Pour into the
buttered dish.
9. Add enough hot water to the roasting pan to come halfway up
the sides of the dish. Bake until the pudding is set in center
and brown around edges, about 1 hour 5 minutes. RemoveDesserts 155the dish from the water and cool at least 15 minutes before
serving.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: When used in space NASA further processes the Rice
Pudding with Rum Raisins by freeze drying.
SS TAPIOCA PUDDING IN POUCHES
2 cups whole milk
1 cup water
2 tbsp quick cooking tapioca
3/4 cup extra fine sugar
1/4 tsp salt2 tbsp modified food starch (you
can substitute corn starch)
1¼ tsp liquid tapioca pudding flavor
(This is a food service product;
no readily available substitute.)
1. Add 1½ cups milk, water, tapioca, sugar, and salt to a sau-
cepan and allow mixture to sit for 5 minutes.
2. Heat mixture to boiling and remove from heat.
3. Add remaining milk to the starch mixture, mix well, and add
to the heated milk mixture.
4. Add tapioca flavor. Mix well, transfer to serving dishes, and
chill.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Tapioca Pudding by thermo-
processing in a retort pouch.156 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS VANILLA PUDDING IN POUCHES
2 cups whole milk
1 cup water
3/4 cup extra fine granulated sugar
1/4 tsp salt4 tbsp modified food starch
(substitute corn starch)
1¼ tsp vanilla
1. Add 1½ cups milk, water, sugar, and salt to a saucepan, heat
mixture to boiling, and remove from heat.
2. Add remaining milk to the starch mixture, mix well, and add
to the heated milk mixture. Add vanilla flavor.
3. Mix well, transfer to serving dishes, and chill.
Yield: 6 servings
Note: NASA further processes the Vanilla Pudding by thermo-
processing in a retort pouch.
Following are some the astronauts’ favorite dessert recipes.Desserts 157KAREN ROSS’S* BANANA PUDDING
*Karen is the wife of astronaut Jerry Ross (see below). Karen
works in the Shuttle Food Processing Facility, where the shuttle
food is produced. She also assists with food preparation during
t h ep r e - f l i g h tq u a r a n t i n ep e r i o d ,a n dt h i sr e c i p ei saf a v o r i t e
dessert during that period of isolation.
1 cup sugar
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
dash of salt
4 cups milk
8 egg yolks, well beaten (reserve
egg whites for meringue)
1¼ tsp vanilla extract1 box NillaTMwafers
5 or 6 (or more) bananas, sliced
8 egg whites at room temperature
dash of salt
1/4 tsp cream of tartar
1½ tsp vanilla extract
5 tbsp sugar
1. Combine 1 cup sugar, flour, and salt in top of double boiler
or in a large saucepan.
2. In mixing bowl, add 1 cup milk to egg yolks; beat thoroughly
to combine. Add remaining 3 cups milk, and beat well.
3. Gradually stir milk and egg yolk mixture into dry ingredients;
blend well with each addition, crushing all lumps.
4. Cook over boiling water or medium heat, uncovered, stirring
constantly until thickened.
5. Reduce heat and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes.
Remove from heat, and add 1 ¼ tsp vanilla.
6. Spread small amount of custard over bottom of lightly
greased 900/C21300baking pan.
7. Arrange NillaTMwafers to cover bottom of pan. Top with layer
of sliced bananas. Pour about 1/3 of custard over bananas.
Continue to layer wafers, bananas, and custard to make
three layers of each, ending with custard.
8. Preheat oven to 350 8F. Beat egg whites, dash of salt, cream of
tartar, and 1 ½ tsp vanilla until stiff but not dry. Gradually add 5
tbsp of sugar, 1 tbsp at a time, and beat until stiff peaks form.
9. Spoon on top of custard, spreading to cover entire surface,
and sealing well to edges. Bake at 350 8F for 5–10 minutes, or
until slightly browned.
Yield: 15 servings158 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMeet the Astronaut: Jerry Ross, STS-61B, STS-27,
STS-37, STS-55, STS-74, STS-88, and STS-110
Colonel Ross received a Bachelor of Science and Master of
Science degrees in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue
University in 1970 and 1972. Colonel Ross graduated from
the USAF Test Pilot School’s Flight Test Engineer Course
in 1976 and was subsequently assigned to the 6510th Test
Wing at Edwards Air Force Base, California. He was
selected as an astronaut in May 1980. Colonel Ross flew as a
Mission Specialist on STS 61-B (1985), STS-27 (1988) and
STS-37 (1991), was the Payload Commander on STS-55/
Spacelab-D2 (1993), and again served as a Mission Specialist
on the second space shuttle to rendezvous and dock with the
Russian space station Mir, STS-74 (1995), the first ISS
assembly mission, STS-88 (1998) and STS-110 (2002).
A veteran of seven spaceflights, Ross has over 1,393 hours in
space, including 58 hours and 18 minutes on nine EVA’s
(spacewalks). He was the first human to ever be launched
into space seven times.Desserts 159PAULA HALL’S* SUPER LEMON BARS
*Former shuttle/ISS dietitian for 10 years who died of cancer in
2007.
Crust:
2 cups flour
1/2 cup powdered sugar3/4 cup margarine
Filling:
4 eggs
1 tsp salt
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/4 cup lemon juice1 tsp. baking powder
1 tsp lemon zest
Icing:
2½ cups powdered sugar
1 tbsp margarine1/4 cup lemon juice
1 tsp lemon zest
For Crust:
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F. Mix flour and powdered sugar.
2. Cut in margarine with a pastry blender until mixture is
crumbly.
3. Press into 900/C21300glass baking pan that has been sprayed
with a non-stick cooking spray.
4. Bake for 15 minutes or until light brown.
For Filling:
1. Mix all ingredients for filling. Pour onto hot crust.
2. Return pan to oven and bake 15–20 minutes or until top of
filling is lightly browned. Allow to cool to room temperature.
For Icing:
Mix all ingredients well and pour on cooled crust. Tilt pan until
all of filling is covered with icing. Allow a minimum of one hour
for the icing to set up.
Yield: 18 bars160 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMIKE MULANE’S (ACTUALLY, HIS MOTHER’S)
COCONUT CREAM PIE
2 eggs, separated
1/2 cup sugar
5 tbsp flour
1 cup evaporated milk
1 cup water
1 cup flaked coconutPinch of salt
1 tsp vanilla extract
4 tbsp butter or margarine
1 pre-baked 9-in. pie shell
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 tsp cream of tartar
1. Beat egg yolks.
2. Combine yolks, ½ cup sugar, flour, milk, water, coconut, and
salt in a medium saucepan; blend thoroughly.
3. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until thickened.
Remove from heat; stir in vanilla and butter.
4. Spoon mixture into pastry shell.
5. Beat egg whites until foamy. Gradually add in ¼ cup sugar
and cream of tartar; continue beating until stiff peaks form.
6. Spread meringue over pie, being careful to seal edges.
7. Bake at 400 8F about 10 minutes, or until lightly browned.
Cool. Refrigerate until serving time.
Meet the Astronaut: Mike Mulane, STS-41D, STS-
27, and STS-36
Mike Mulane received a Bachelor of Science degree in Mili-
tary Engineering from the United States Military Academy
in 1967 and a Master of Science degree in Aeronautical
Engineering from the Air Force Institute of Technology in
1975. He was selected by NASA in January 1978 and
became an astronaut in August 1979. A veteran of three
spaceflights, he has logged a total of 356 hours in space. He
was a Mission Specialist on the crew of STS-41D (August
30 to September 5, 1984), STS-27 (December 2-6, 1988),
and STS-36 in (February 28 to March 4, 1990). Mike is
currently a professional speaker and writer and is the author
of a book entitled ‘‘Riding Rockets’’ (Scribner 2006) in which
he describes what it is like being an astronaut.Desserts 161CONNIE STADLER’S* RHUBARB MUFFINS
*Former Apollo, Skylab , and shuttle dietitian from 1970 to 1988.
Muffin:
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup rhubarb, chopped
3/4 cup BisquickTM
1 egg1/2 cup sour cream
1 tsp vanilla
Dash of salt
Topping:
¼ cup butter
½ cup flour½ cup sugar
¼ cup pecans, chopped
1. Mix sugar, rhubarb, and Bisquick together.
2. Mix lightly and add egg, sour cream, vanilla, and a dash of
salt.
3. Spoon batter into muffin tins lined with paper liners. Fill
each half full.
4. Mix topping ingredients together and sprinkle over batter,
pressing down slightly.
5. Bake at 375 8F for about 25 minutes, but watch carefully.
Batter keeps well a couple of days in the refrigerator (topping,
too)162 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKMILDRED BONDAR’S (ASTRONAUT ROBERTA
BONDAR’S MOTHER) DREAM CAKE (FIGURE 8.5)
Shortbread:
1/2 cup butter
1/4 cup brown sugar1 cup flour
Pinch salt
Filling:
2 eggs
1 cup brown sugar
1 cup desiccated coconut
1 cup finely chopped pecans1 tbsp flour
1 tsp vanilla
1/2 tsp baking powder
Pinch salt
FIGURE 8.5 Astronaut Roberta Bondar removing her Dream Cake from
the food locker on STS-42. The plastic bag containing the Dream Cake can
be seen in the Imax movie, Destiny in Space (NASA photograph).Desserts 163Icing:
1½ cups sifted icing sugar
1 tbsp butter1 tsp vanilla
Milk to moisten
1. Preheat oven to 325 8F.
2. In a bowl mix by hand butter and brown sugar, then add flour
and salt.
3. Place mixture into a lightly greased pan (approx 700/C2700/C2
200) and bake.
4. For the filling, in a bowl, beat the 2 eggs and brown sugar
and stir in remaining filling ingredients.
5. Pour mixture over shortbread and return to the oven for
30–40 minutes.
6. Remove from oven and cool.
7. Blend icing ingredients and mix with enough milk to moisten
and spread on cool cake.
8. When icing has set, cut into squares.
Meet the Astronaut: Roberta Bondar, STS-42
Roberta Bondar received a B.Sc. in zoology and agriculture,
University of Guelph, 1968, M.Sc. University of Western
Ontario, 1971, Ph.D. in neurobiology, University of Tor-
onto, 1974, and a MD from McMaster University, 1977. Dr.
Bondar was one of the six original Canadian astronauts
selected in December, 1983 and began astronaut training in
February, 1984. In early 1990, she was designated a prime
Payload Specialist for the first International Microgravity
Laboratory Mission (IML-1). Dr. Bondar flew on the space
shuttle Discovery during Mission STS-42, January 22-30,
1992 where she performed life science and material science
experiments in the Spacelab and on the middeck.164 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKWhat You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
Don’t feel like measuring, blending, folding, cooking, and baking
space deserts? When nobody’s looking, head to your local super-
market. Except for the packaging, the following is a list of authentic
space deserts to please any sugarholic.
Spiced apple pieces in a retort pouch by SOPACKO
Handi-snacksTMBanana Split Pudding by Kraft
Individual quick frozen Hill Country Fare berry medley by HEB.
NASA adds sugar and freeze dries before use.
Blueberry raspberry yogurt in pouches by Arla Foods
Handi-snacksTMbutterscotch pudding by Kraft
Fruit Cocktail in retort pouches by SOPACKO
Mocha Yogurt in pouches by Arla Foods
Peaches in retort pouches by SOPACKO
Pears in Extra Lite Syrup by Del Monte
Pears in retort pouches by SOPACKO
Pineapple tidbits in pineapple juice by Del Monte
Pineapple in retort pouches by SOPACKO
Strawberries halved in delicious syrup by Birds Eye. NASA adds
ascorbic acid and freeze dries before using.
Handi-snacksTMvanilla or tapioca pudding by KraftDesserts 165CHAPTER 9
Beverages
Millions of adults grew up drinking orange flavored TangTMat
breakfast. In a widespread advertising campaign, parents
learned that NASA astronauts drink TangTMin space, and
therefore, it’s good for children. TangTMbecame famous, and
many attributed its invention to the space program. It was one
example of how exploring space benefited people on Earth. The
only thing true about this story, though, is that astronauts did
drink it in space.
During the Gemini program, onboard water was produced
as a byproduct in fuel cells that combined hydrogen and oxygen
in an electrolyte solution to generate electricity. Since water was
being created and it was harmless to drink, why not save weight
and use it instead of launching large water tanks? The only
problem was that the water processed by fuel cells had an
unpleasant taste. Something was needed to mask its flavor,
and that something was TangTM. TangTM, invented in 1957
by the same person that invented Pop Rocks, was a convenient
powder that could easily be rehydrated in space. Although not
nearly as good tasting as real orange juice, it did solve the
spacecraft water taste problem. The rest was history.
To prepare TangTMfor spaceflight, it must be packaged
under a hard vacuum. Any air in the package would form
bubbles in the drink during rehydration. If air gets into a
beverage package in space, it is impossible to get out. The
astronaut ends up swallowing the air, which causes intestinal
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_9,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 2010167problems. One of the interesting side effects of spaceflight is that it is
difficult to burp in space. Often, a burp is accompanied by a liquid
spray (very unpopular). Dr. Joseph Kerwin, from the Skylab 2 mis-
sion, once spoke to a Congressional panel and described the medical
state of astronauts. He explained that the GI tract "accelerates
bubbles downward with great velocity."
Bubbles are an occasional problem in beverages. Sometimes
bubbles enter the water supply from the fuel cells. A hydrogen gas
removal system usually takes care of the problem.
Powdered drinks seem to work best in space. Natural fruit
juices will solidify when subjected to a hard vacuum over long periods
of time. Reconstituting them with water is next to impossible. The
only natural juice currently flown in space is freeze-dried orange and
grapefruit juice.
Astronauts give up many comforts of home when they embark
on space travel. Besides the loss of privacy, the comfort of a familiar
bed, and home cooked meals, they leave behind carbonated soft
drinks! In microgravity, sodas do strange things. Think about pour-
ing a glass of Coke on Earth. The Coke fills the glass and then a head
forms from bubbles of carbon dioxide that come out of solution and
rise to the top. If you could pour a Coke in space (liquids don’t pour
in microgravity), the bubbles would not rise to the top of the glass.
They would just expand and remain where they are. In no time, a
bubbly froth would appear that would rise out of the glass—a big-
time mess! Soda and another popular astronaut drink, beer, are
undrinkable in space.
Regardless of the carbonation problem, soft drinks have flown
in space. During the STS-51F space shuttle mission in 1985, both
Coca Cola and Pepsi Cola were flown. The Space Food Laboratory
personnel called it the great "Space Cola War."
It all started out when Coca Cola engineers developed a Coke
dispenser in the shape of a Coke can. The effort cost a couple of
hundred thousand dollars. Coca Cola wanted to test the dispenser in
space. After submitting it through a detailed flight approval process,
NASA granted permission for it to fly it as an experiment. So far so
good. Then, Pepsi got wind of what was happening and demanded
equal time. Both Coke and Pepsi would fly together in a "cola
challenge."
The two experiments moved into the political arena, and
NASA began receiving conflicting directions from Congress and168 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKthe White House. The manager of the Space Food Laboratory had
not once, in his 15 years at NASA, been summoned to the JSC
Center director’s office, but he soon found himself wearing a path in
the director’s carpet to periodically receive new instructions. Remove
the brand labels from the dispensers and place NASA insignias on
them. Remove the NASA insignia and replace the brand labels.
Repeat. And so on. The final directive was to go with the brand
labels, but astronauts were warned about making any comments that
would inflame the war. In the end, the astronauts reported that both
Coke and Pepsi tasted just like warm soda (there wasn’t any refrig-
eration on board)! (Figure 9.1)
Even if a refrigerator were on board and a microgravity soda
dispenser were perfected, there is no guarantee that carbonated
beverages would be used in space. There is still the problem of the
effects of bubbles on astronaut digestive systems.
OK, no soda and no beer. What about wine? Alcohol has never
been an official part of any NASA Space Food System, although it
nearly became a part of the Skylab system. Since the Skylab space
station was planned to be a home away from home, some felt it
FIGURE 9.1 Astronaut Anthony England testing the experimental Coke
can on STS-51F (NASA photograph).Beverages 169should be stocked like a home. That included wine. After consulting
with several professors at the University of California at Davis, it was
decided that a Sherry would work best because any wine flown would
have to be repackaged. Sherry is a very stable product, having been
heated during the processing. Thus, it would be the least likely to
undergo changes if it were to be repackaged.
The winner of the space Sherry taste test was Paul Masson,
California Rare Cream Sherry. A quantity of this Rare Cream Sherry
was ordered for the entire Skylab mission and was delivered to the
Johnson Space Center. A package was developed that consisted of a
flexible plastic pouch with a built-in drinking tube, which could be
cut off. The astronaut would simply squeeze the bag and drink the
wine from the package. The flexible container was designed to be
fitted into the Skylab pudding can.
In the end, the flight set of wine never reached the packaging
stage. NASA was afraid of negative publicity. Furthermore, a survey
of the Skylab crews indicated that wine was not a high priority for
them. Wine was permitted for the Skylab pre-flight and post-flight
food programs, and the dedicated prime and backup crews made sure
none of the Paul Masson Rare Cream Sherry was wasted.
On the ISS there is a limited amount of alcohol that is brought
up by the Russians. The official Russian position is that they do not
allow alcohol in space, but some of the cosmonauts have friends at the
launch center.
How do you consume beverages in space? Beverages have to be
in enclosed containers. A cup does not control liquids, as it does on
Earth. Raising the cup to the mouth gets the liquid moving, and it all
leaves the cup when the cup reaches the lips. An elongated bag holds
dry ingredients, such as TangTM, or one of many powdered drinks
including coffee, tea, and cocoa. Hot or cold water is injected into the
package, and the beverage is consumed through a straw.
CHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: WINE IN SPACE?
My boss was Mormon and consequently, the job of heading
the wine selection process for the Skylab missions fell to me.
Selecting a wine was an interesting project for the people in
the food laboratory, and we had no shortage of volunteers for170 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKthe taste panel. To make sure wine was safe to fly in space, we even
took some up in NASA’S KC-135 low gravity plane. The plane, a
retired air force tanker, flies over the Gulf of Mexico and makes
about 40 parabolic arcs that simulate the microgravity of space. For
approximately 25 seconds, the passengers inside feel weightless.
Because of its gut-wrenching effects, the plane has earned the
nickname of the ‘Vomit Comet.’ (Figure 9.2)
The idea of flying on the KC-135 was to test the wine packaging
in microgravity. As it turned out, the odors released by the wine,
combined with a residual smell of years-worth of people getting
sick on the plane, had an unplanned effect on the crew. Many
grabbed for their barf bags. Usually, you have to drink a lot more
wine before you get sick. Not here! In the end, the wine never flew
onSkylab.
FIGURE 9.2 Food Lab personnel, Jane McAvin and Gloria Mongan test
food packages on the zero G plane (NASA photograph).Beverages 171SPACE FIREWORKS
Due to power needs on board the space shuttle, hard-working
fuel cells produce almost 2 gal/h of drinkable water as a
byproduct. That’s more than the astronauts can consume
and more than cooling systems need. Eventually, when sto-
rage tanks fill up, excess water has to be gotten rid of. The excess is
sprayed into space, whereupon it freezes into ice crystals. Astro-
nauts report the crystal shower is like a fireworks show if the lighting
is right. Sometimes, water dumps can even be seen from the ground,
forming a small comet-like tail coming from the shuttle. When the
shuttle is docked to the ISS, excess water is transferred to it.
CHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: WHAT YOU SEE IS
WHAT YOU DRINK
Astronauts objected when the space shuttle’s beverage
package was changed from a plastic box with a clear plastic
lid to a flexible foil container. The boxes didn’t compress well
in the onboard trash containers, and the new package would
save lots of space. The astronauts objected because the contents
were not visible. The objections died down when I pointed out that
they couldn’t see what was in a Coors or Coke can and that didn’t
stop them from drinking those products.
DRINKING FROM THE CUP
NASA was still using the space shuttle rigid square packages
with flexible tops for beverages when astronaut Bill Thornton
conducted a little impromptu flight experiment. He wanted to
try to drink from a cup in space. Since there weren’t any cups
on board, Thornton filled a drink box with water and then cut off the
top and had a drink. He raised the box to his mouth and started
drinking, but then the rest of the water kept coming. Moving the box
got all of the water moving as well, and it left the cup and ended up
all over his face.172 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSUIT(ABLE) DRINKS
Today’s spacesuits have a mechanism for allowing an astro-
naut to drink fluids while wearing the suit. A pouch inside the
suit contains the fluid, and the astronaut drinks through a
tube with a bite valve on the end. He or she bites the valve to
open it and then sucks the fluid into the mouth. On Apollo 16 it was
decided to include an orange drink spiked with potassium gluco-
nate because the astronauts on the previous Moon mission had
heart arrhythmias, and the medical folks had decided that these
were due to decreased potassium levels. It was felt that consuming
potassium while walking on the Moon would eliminate the pro-
blem. While Apollo 16 astronaut Charlie Duke was walking on the
Moon, the bite valve became entangled with some communication
wire and opened, releasing the potassium-spiked orange drink
inside his helmet. Although no harm was done, this could have
been catastrophic. Needless to say, since then nothing but water
has ever been placed inside the suit for drinking.
SS CHOCOLATE INSTANT BREAKFAST
3 tbsp Chocolate OvaltineTM(in
powder form)
1/4 cup non-fat dry milk1½ tsp unsweetened cocoa
1 cup hot or cold water
1. Add dry ingredients to a resealable plastic bag.
2. Add water (hot or cold) and mix well.
3. Drink with a straw.
Yield: 1 serving
Note: NASA packages the dry ingredients in the beverage pack-
age and astronauts add water before consuming.Beverages 173SS ORANGE GRAPEFRUIT DRINK
2½ tsp Orange drink powder, such
as TangTM
2 tsp Grapefruit drink powder juice,
such as TangTM1 cup cold water
1. Add dry ingredients to a resealable plastic bag.
2. Add water and mix well.
3. Drink with a straw.
Yield: 1 serving
NASA packages the dry ingredients in the beverage package and
astronauts add water before consuming.
SS ORANGE MANGO DRINK
3 tsp Orange drink powder, such as
TangTM
2 tsp Mango drink powder, such as
TangTM1 cup cold water
1. Add dry ingredients to a resealable plastic bag.
2. Add water and mix well.
3. Drink with a straw.
Yield: 1 serving
Note: NASA packages the dry ingredients in the beverage pack-
age and astronauts add water before consumption.174 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSS MANGO-PEACH SMOOTHIE
2/3 cup Safari Mango Smoothie Mix
(from America’s Classic Foods)
1/2 cup Smoothie’O non-dairy
instant frozen yogurt mix (from
Gold medal Products Co.)2½ tbsp Sahara Burst peach Dry
Crystals drink mix (from Sysco)
4½ cups chilled water
Add mango smoothie mix, instant frozen yogurt, and peach drink
mix to the chilled water in a blender and blend. Astronauts do not
have a blender in space, so if you want to mix it like astronauts
do, add the ingredients to a plastic bag and shake well before
serving.
Yield: 6 servings
For use in space these are packaged in the shuttle beverage
package. The powder is added to the package before sealing the
top with the drink adapter sealed inside under a hard vacuum.
The drink adapter contains a septum sealed in with foil. When
the astronaut rehydrates the package the galley needle
punctures the foil seal and the septum and directs water to
the package. When the needle is withdrawn, the septum
reseals the package so there is no leakage. The astronaut
inserts the plastic straw into the septum after rehydration and
is then able to drink the beverage. The straw has a clamp to seal
it off when not in use. Otherwis e the liquid would siphon out of
the straw in microgravity and end up in a big glob at the end of
the straw (Figure 9.3)Beverages 175What You’ll Find at Your Supermarket
Alpine Spiced Cider original apple flavor drink mix by Continental
Mills, Seattle WA
Kool AidTMbrand Cherry Sugar free low calorie drink by Kraft
Cocoa MRE
Nescafe Taster’s ChoiceTMInstant by Nestle. Add Coffeemate to
Instant Nescafe to get coffee with cream
Grape Drink-Kool AidTMbrand grape artificial flavor sugar swee-
tened drink mix by Kraft
Grapefruit Drink- Crystals brand grapefruit freeze dried powder by
Mastertaste, Plant City FL (add 1 teaspoon sugar)
Kool AidTMbrand grape sugar free low calorie drink by Kraft
GatoradeTMLemon Lime drink powder
Country Time lemonade flavor drink by Kraft
Wyler’s Light Lemonade Soft Drink Mix by Jel Sert
Lemon-Lime AstroAde by Shaklee Corp
Orange AstroAde by Shaklee Corp
TangTMorange drink mix by Kraft
Crystals brand orange freeze dried fruit powder by Mastertaste
TangTMpineapple flavor drink mix
FIGURE 9.3 The STS-5 crew demonstrates what happens when straw is not
clamped shut on the rigid beverage container (NASA photograph).176 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKPeach Apricot Drink-Sahara Burst peach dry crystals mix by Sysco
TangTMpineapple flavored drink mix by Kraft
Crystal LightTMraspberry-peach mix by Kraft
HE Buddy strawberry instant drink mix by HEB
TangTMstrawberry flavor drink mix by Kraft
Lipton diet iced tea mix with natural lemon flavor by Lipton
Kool AidTMtropical punch sugar sweetened soft drink mix by Kraft
Kool AidTMsugar free tropical punch mix by Kraft
Kroger brand Vanilla Instant BreakfastBeverages 177CHAPTER 10
Future Space
Food
The time has come for humankind to return to the Moon and
to start preparing to make the first manned voyages to Mars.
NASA’s 21st Century Space Policy calls for just those steps,
but going to the Moon won’t consist of Apollo -style flights (grab
some rocks and go). Astronauts will go there to build a perma-
nent base. Eventually, the same is planned to happen on Mars.
Making this vision possible will be a new family of space vehicles
that combine the best technology of the past with the best of the
future. Looking like a Saturn V rocket on the launch pad, the
Ares I rocket will launch the Orion capsule with as many as six
astronauts to the ISS or four astronauts for flights to the Moon.
The Ares V, a much beefier rocket, will carry heavy payloads
into orbit. For Moon missions, Ares V will loft the Altair lunar
lander and the Earth Departure Stage (EDS) into orbit. After
rendezvousing with Orion, the EDS will propel Orion and the
lander to the Moon.
Although the first missions to the Moon are projected to
be short and will not require significant, if any, modifications to
the food system, the initial trip to Mars using current propul-
sion technology is projected to be a 2-year roundtrip. Travel to
Mars, and back to Earth, require the two planets to be in
favorable positions in their orbits. This means a 6-month flight
out to Mars, a year on the surface, and a 6-month flight back.
C.T. Bourland, G.L. Vogt, The Astronaut’s Cookbook , DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-0624-3_10,
/C211Springer Science þBusiness Media, LLC 2010179Therefore, a Mars mission will require a food system with far longer
shelf life (2–3 years) than is currently available for the ISS missions.
The challenges for a future food system will be very similar to
the challenges presented by all previous space missions. Mass and
volume of the foods system and their associated packaging will be
limited. Refrigerators and freezers may not be available. Acceptability
of the food items will become even more crucial on a 2-year mission.
(After all, when you are 250 million miles from Earth, you can’t just
send out for a pizza. If you don’t have a pizza maker on board, it is
best not to think about pizzas.)
One of the new challenges for interplanetary missions is that
food will have to be resistant to degrading due to exposure to
radiation. Missions to the Moon and to Mars will carry astronauts
well beyond the protective cocoon of Earth’s Van Allen radiation
belts. Food for the trip will not only be called upon to be nutritious
but also to provide extra antioxidants to help counter the effects of
radiation on the crew itself.
The future lunar habitat will be used to test technologies
needed for a mission to Mars. Some of the plans for habitats include
the growing of plants. Plants offer definite advantages in a closed
environment, because they convert carbon dioxide to oxygen, recycle
water, make food, and bolster crew morale. Unfortunately, the mass
and size of the equipment needed for space agriculture—growth
chambers, water and air recycling systems, and food processing
equipment—make them impractical for short missions.
Nevertheless, through many short-term flight experiments,
much has been learned about growing plants in space. American
astronauts and Russian cosmonauts have flown plant experiments in
space on the space shuttle, the Mirspace station, and the ISS. Plants
grow well in space, but goofy things can happen. Without a domi-
nant direction for gravity, as is the case in orbital spacecraft, roots
sometimes grow upward out of the soil. Air has to be deliberately
circulated around plants. Lighting and temperature has to be care-
fully monitored and water limited so that plants do not become
waterlogged. These are all manageable challenges. Crew members
have reported that tending plants in space was a pleasurable experi-
ence, in part because plants provided a pleasant break from what is an
otherwise relatively sterile environment.
NASA-sponsored research projects at various colleges have
established that bell peppers, cabbage, carrots, beans, lettuce, green180 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKonions, herbs, peanuts, potatoes, radishes, rice, soybeans, spinach,
strawberries, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, and wheat are all potential
candidates for successful space agriculture. Some of the research
projects focused on developing food products such as bread, cookies,
and beverages from sweet potatoes. Recipes and menus were devel-
oped using only these crops as the food source, along with a few
selected spices.
Other plant projects focused on growing technologies or on
breeding plants with space-friendly properties. Using nutrient recy-
cling systems, controlled lighting, optimum temperatures, and an
atmosphere with the right mix of carbon dioxide, a sustainable diet
for a single astronaut could be produced using only about 30 m2of
growing space.
Amazing results such as this depend in part upon special dwarf
varieties of plants such as dwarf wheat, rice, and tomatoes. Bred
specifically for space flight, dwarf plants are short (naturally), and
most of their growth goes into the production of grains or fruit.
Furthermore, the plants thrive on 24 hours of light and carbon
dioxide-rich atmospheres.
Needless to say, a plant-based advanced life support system
results in a vegetarian diet. If you volunteer for one of the future
extended space missions, you should know that vegetarian meals are
what you will get.
However, you will have one big advantage over growing
plants in microgravity if you are on the Moon or Mars. On these
bodies there is sufficient gravity for plants to grow normally. Crops
c a nm o r ee a s i l yb ep r o c e s s e di n t oi n gredients for other foods (i.e.,
wheat milled into flour). Envisioned is some sort of food synthe-
sizer that would raise plant and animal cells and then process them
into basic or even gourmet food . A computer-controlled food
production machine that could use a few basic raw ingredients to
make truly tasty and varied foods h as been envisioned in science
fiction and may prove to be successful someday in the future.
‘‘Computer, a cheese and sausage pi zza, extra cheese, no anchovies’’
m a yb eh e a r di no t h e rp a r t so ft h eS o l a rS y s t e ma sw e l la sh e r eo n
Earth.
One thing NASA is very good at is simulation. No astronaut
rockets into space without rehearsing every moment of the mission
from liftoff to landing, including food preparation and dining. Astro-
nauts practice everything. A permanent base on the Moon and aFuture Space Food 181mission to Mars will pose unique challenges for the crew. Simula-
tions for these missions have already begun.
In the late 1990s, volunteers at the Johnson Space Center
were sealed inside a multi-story m etal chamber for periods of up
to 91 days. The chamber looked l ike a giant pressure cooker.
The volunteers lived in tight quarters in a good approximation
o ft h ei n t e r i o ro fal u n a ro rM a r sb a s e .T h ec h a m b e rw a sn e x t
to but not directly connected by airlocks to chambers where
plants were grown. Oxygen produced by plants in the chambers
was cycled into the crew chambe r. During some of their studies
nearly all of their air and water was recycled. For most of the
experiments, the volunteers ate an ISS-style diet. In one experi-
ment, they followed a limited vegetarian diet for 10 days that
was definitely not ‘‘all you can eat.’’ Regardless, the volunteers
thrived, and much valuable dat a and insights were gained. A
typical daily menu for the ten-da y vegetarian part of the habita-
tion experiment included:
Breakfast Lunch Dinner
Plain bagel Vegetable
chowderSpaghetti sauce
Strawberry jelly Spicy black bean
burgerWhole wheat
spaghetti
Orange juice Soy bread Skillet garlic bread
Coffee Apricots Cooked spinach
Peanut butter
pieSalad with tomatoes
and onions
Snack (Sugared
Beverage)Beverage
Snack (Pretzel
sticks)Peanut butter pie
Thanks to NASA-sponsored university and college researchers (pro-
fessors and students) and the dietitians at the Food Laboratory at the
Johnson Space Center, you, too, can imagine yourself as a future
Moon or Mars explorer sitting down to a well-deserved meal after a
long day in a spacesuit exploring an alien world. Following is a
sampling of the space food vegetarian recipes that have been devel-
oped for future astronauts.182 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCHARLES BOURLAND’S DIARY: BACK HOME SAFE
I was on the recovery ship for the famous Apollo 13 mission
that had to be aborted in mid-flight due to an explosion. The
crew that flew used the Moon’s gravity to turn their capsule
back to Earth and barely made it home.
Once the capsule was on deck, I was able to poke my head into
the hatch and look around. To my surprise, the capsule reeked with
the odor of 8-hydroxyquinoline sulfate. I was expecting lots of other
odors. The compound was contained in a pill that was placed in
emptied food packages to prevent microbial growth on any leftover
food residue (Figure 10.1). Although the smell was irritating to
me, the crew never complained about it, probably becoming
accustomed to it over time. Later research determined that the
compound was not needed, and it was eliminated from future
food packages beginning with the Apollo/Soyuz mission in 1975.
FIGURE 10.1 Apollo pill used to prevent spoilage of food residue
(NASA photograph).Future Space Food 183LUNAR TRIVIA
What was the first meal eaten on the surface of the Moon?
Apollo 11 astronauts spent 24 hours on the Moon before
rocketing back into orbit to join crewmate Michael Collins.
After a dramatic touchdown, in which Armstrong had to
propel the lander safely across a boulder-strewn plain to find a
clear landing spot and before making their first steps on the sur-
face, the two lunar explorers had a celebration meal. So what was
their first meal on the Moon? Bacon squares, peaches, sugar
cookie cubes, pineapple grapefruit drink, and coffee.
FOOD OF THE FUTURE?
In the early 1980s a youth organization called the Young
Astronauts was formed to inspire youngsters to excel in
science, mathematics, and technology. At a national conven-
tion of Young Astronauts’ chapters, the headquarters staff
unveiled a new space-type nutritional food bar they called ‘ ‘food of
the future.’ ’ The idea was that chapters would offer the bars as a
snack during and after school meetings. The YA Council would earn
some money from the sales of the bars, and the kids would get a fun
nutritional snack. To launch the product, a table was heaped with
free bars for the Young Astronaut attendees to sample. Through the
clear wrap, the bars closely resembled the seed bars hung in
birdcages. Almost to a child, the free bars were rejected
untouched—a valuable lesson in space food development. Even
for gung-ho future space explorers, food presentation was still
important.184 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKBBQ TEMPEH*
8 oz tempeh* (available in larger
supermarkets)
3 tbsp vegetable oil
1/4–1/2 cup water
1 tsp salt
1 cup chopped green onions
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 cup vegetable oil
2½ cups canned tomato sauce
1/4 cup water1/2 cup brown sugar
1 tbsp molasses
1/2 cup mustard
1 tsp salt
1 tsp allspice
2 tsp crushed red pepper
2 tbsp minced parsley
1/4 cup water
1 tbsp soy sauce
1/4 cup lemon juice
*Tempeh is a high protein food made from cooked and slightly
fermented soybeans and formed into a patty, similar to a very
firm veggie burger. Many commercially prepared brands today
add other grains, such as barley or rice, or spices to vary the
flavor and nutritional content.
1. In a skillet fry squares of tempeh in oil on one side until
golden brown.
2. Add water to cover and salt and put a lid on immediately.
3. When the water steams away, flip the squares, add more
water, and fry and steam on the other side.
4. In a separate pan, saute ´chopped onion and garlic in oil until
onions are soft.
5. Add all ingredients except lemon juice and soy sauce.
6. Bring to boil, reduce heat, and simmer for 1 hour. Stir
occasionally.
7. Add lemon juice and soy sauce and cook 10 minutes longer.
Yield: 4 servingsFuture Space Food 185BRAISED ONIONS AND CARROTS (FIGURE 10.2)
4½ tbsp vegetable oil
1 medium onion, thinly sliced
1½ large tomatoes, peeled and
chopped
24 baby carrots, sliced lengthwise
1 tsp salt1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
1/2 cup finely chopped scallions
3 tbsp finely chopped cilantro
1. Heat oil in a heavy skillet over high heat.
2. Drop in onions and, stirring frequently, cook over moderate
heat for 8–10 minutes, or until golden brown.
3. Add tomatoes, increase heat, and boil briskly, uncovered,
until most of the liquid has evaporated.
4. Stir in carrots, cilantro, salt, and cayenne pepper.
5. Add enough water (½–3/4cup) to barely cover the carrots.
6. Bring to boil, cover with lid, and simmer for 10 minute, or
until carrots are tender.
7. Sprinkle with chopped scallions and serve.
Yield: 6 servings
FIGURE 10.2 Braised onions and carrots.186 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKTOFU BROWNIES
1/3 cup unbleached all-purpose
flour
2/3 cup water
1/2 lb tofu
2 cups sugar
1 tsp salt1 tsp vanilla
3/4 cup cocoa
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1½ cup unbleached all-purpose
flour
1 scant tsp baking powder
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Whisk the 1/3 cup flour and water in a cool saucepan until
lump free.
3. Whip tofu in a blender until smooth and creamy.
4. Add flour and water to tofu and cook over low heat until
mixture thickens. Remove from heat and allow to cool.
5. To cooled mixture add sugar, salt, and vanilla. Beat well to
remove lumps.
6. In a second bowl mix cocoa and oil until lumps are gone, and
add to the tofu/flour mixture.
7. Mix flour and baking powder and add to the mixture. Stir
until lumps are gone.
8. Bake in a well oiled and floured 900/C21300pan for 25 minutes
at 3508F.
Yield: 16 barsFuture Space Food 187SOY BREAD (FIGURE 10.3)
3/4 cup +2 tbsp plain soymilk
1 tbsp peanut oil
2 tsp dry active yeast
2 tbsp sugar1 tsp salt
1/4 cup + 2 tbsp soy flour
2 cups unbleached all-purpose
flour
This recipe is for a 2-lb loaf to be baked in a bread machine.
Follow the baking instructions for the bread machine.
Yield: 12 slices
FIGURE 10.3 Soy bread.188 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKCACCIATORE (TEMPEH)
16 oz tempeh
1/2 cup unbleached all-purpose
flour
1 tsp salt1/4 tsp pepper
1/4 cup water
3 tbsp peanut oil
Sauce:
1 29-oz can of tomato sauce
1 bay leaf
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/8 tsp thyme
1 tsp basil1 tsp oregano
1/8 tsp marjoram
1 tbsp sugar
1 cup chopped green onion
1. Measure out all ingredients.
2. Cut tempeh into 12–18 short pieces.
3. Mix flour, salt, and pepper in a bag and set aside.
4. Steam tempeh by heating water in a skillet over medium
heat. When water is hot, add tempeh and steam for
5 minutes, or until water evaporates.
5. Remove tempeh and place on dish; allow to cool for
5 minutes.
6. In a separate large soup-style pan, combine all sauce
ingredients and heat to boiling. Allow to simmer on low heat.
7. Coat tempeh pieces in the bag of flour, salt, and pepper.
8. Heat oil on medium heat in skillet. When a small piece of
tempeh will sizzle on being placed in the oil, add remaining
tempeh and onions and brown until medium to dark brown.
9. Remove browned tempeh and pat excess oil.
10. Add browned tempeh and onions to the sauce and simmer
on low to medium heat for 20–30 minutes.
Yield: 4–6 servingsFuture Space Food 189ENGLISH MUFFINS
1 cup hot water
1/2 cup scalded soymilk
2 tsp sugar
1 tsp salt
1 package dry active yeast
2 tbsp warm water4 cups unbleached all-purpose
flour
3 tbsp butter flavoring such as
Butter BudsTM
3 tbsp vegetable oil
1. Combine water, milk, sugar, and salt in a mixing bowl.
2. Dissolve the yeast in the 2 tbsp warm water for 10 minutes.
3. Beat half of the flour into the milk mixture.
4. Cover the bowl with a damp cloth and put in a warm place for
about 90 minutes, until dough rises.
5. Beat in butter flavoring, then beat in the rest of the flour and
let the dough rise again for another 90 minutes.
6. Place the dough on a lightly floured board. Press or pat until
the dough has doubled in area. Cut into circles with a cookie
cutter or cup.
7. Cook dough circles until light brown on a fairly hot, well-
oiled griddle. Turn each muffin once while cooking.
GARBANZO BEAN BURGERS
2 cups cooked garbanzo beans,
mashed
1 stalk celery, finely chopped
1 carrot, finely chopped1/4 cup minced green onion
1/4 cup whole wheat flour
2 tsp vegetable oil
1. Mix all ingredients except oil in a bowl. Form 6 flat patties.
2. Fry in oiled pan over medium-high heat until burgers are
golden brown on each side.
Yield: 6 servings190 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKHOT AND SOUR SOUP
4 cups water
1/4 lb tofu, firm, slivered
2 cubes vegetable bouillon
3/4 tsp salt
1 tbsp soy sauce2 tbsp white vinegar
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
3 tbsp water
2 tbsp cornstarch
1/4 cup green onions, chopped
1. Bring water to boil.
2. Add tofu, bouillon, salt, and soy sauce. Simmer for 3
minutes.
3. Add vinegar and cayenne pepper and bring to boil.
4. In a separate dish dissolve together 3 tbsp water and corn-
starch. Add dissolved mixture to the soup. Garnish with
chopped green onions.
Yield: 4 servingsFuture Space Food 191KIDNEY BEAN BURGERS (FIGURE 10.4)
1 29-oz can of kidney beans,
drained
2 cups cooked brown rice
1/4 cup chopped green onions
2 tbsp ketchup
1/2 tsp garlic powder1 tsp oregano
1/8 tsp thyme
1/4 tsp sage
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 tsp pepper
Combine all ingredients in a large bowl and mash well. Form into
patties and cook in a non-stick pan until browned on both sides.
Yield: 6 servings
FIGURE 10.4 Kidney bean burgers.192 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKPOTATO SALAD
2 cups diced cooked potatoes
1/2 cup diced celery
1 tbsp chopped green onions
1 red bell pepper, finely chopped
2 tbsp chopped fresh flat-leaf
parsley1/2 tbsp cider vinegar
1 tsp dry mustard
1/2 tsp celery seed
1/4 cup tofu-based mayonnaise
(see recipe below)
Combine all ingredients except mayonnaise. Toss lightly and
chill. A few hours before serving time, add mayonnaise and
return to the refrigerator.
Yield: 4 servings
Tofu Mayonnaise:
½ lb tofu
¼ cup canola oil
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp sugar1½ tsp bottled mustard
1 tsp apple cider vinegar
½ tsp salt
Combine all ingredients in a blender and beat until smooth and
creamy.
PEANUT BUTTER BREAD
1 cup plain soymilk
2 cups unbleached all-purpose
flour
1/3 cup sugar
2 tsp baking powder1/4 tsp salt
3/4 cup creamy-style peanut
butter, softened by stirring
1/3 cup liquid egg product such as
Egg Beaters
This recipe is for a 1-lb loaf to be baked in a bread machine.
Follow the instructions for the bread machine. Use the sweet
bread mode. Add 1/3–½ dry ingredients to wet mixture in the loaf
pan. This prevents the liquid from splashing during kneading.
When the continuous kneading cycle (fast cycle) begins, add
remainder of dry ingredients.
Yield: 12 slicesFuture Space Food 193PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES (FIGURE 10.5)
3 cups unbleached all-purpose
flour
1 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
1 cup brown sugar1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 cup peanut butter
1/2 cup honey
1/2 cup tofu, blended
1 tsp vanilla
1. Preheat oven to 350 8F.
2. Combine dry ingredients.
3. Combine wet ingredients.
4. Add flour mixture in 3 portions, stirring after each addition.
5. Form dough into 1-in. balls. Arrange on cookie sheet about
3 in. apart. Press with fork that has been dipped in cold water
to create a crisscross design.
6. Bake for 10–12 minutes.
Yield: 48 cookies
FIGURE 10.5 Peanut butter cookies.194 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKRICE-ORANGE PUDDING
3/4 cup rice, uncooked
1/4 tsp salt
1/2 cup sugar
1½ cups water
1½ tsp ground cloves1 tsp grated orange peel
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup boiling water
1½ 11-oz cans mandarin oranges,
drained
1. Combine rice, salt, 1/2 cup sugar, and water in a saucepan;
cover, bring to boil, reduce heat, and simmer 15–20 minutes,
or until water is absorbed and rice is tender.
2. Mix cloves, orange peel, sugar, and water in a small sauce-
pan. Boil over medium heat for 5 minutes to form syrup.
3. Shape the rice into a mound on a platter. Arrange orange
sections on rice and pour the syrup over them. Serve hot or
cold.
Yield: 6 servings
ROASTED GARLIC SOYBEAN HUMMUS
3 large garlic cloves
2 cups cooked soybeans
2 tbsp sesame seeds, browned in
oil
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tbsp vinegar
1/2 cup fresh parsley or cilantro,
chopped2 tsp salt
1 tbsp (1/2 cube) chicken bouillon
3 tbsp roasted bell peppers
(canned or bottled are OK)
1–2 tsp cayenne pepper, to taste
1–2 tsp chili powder, to taste
1 tbsp cumin
1. Preheat broiler. Broil garlic cloves for 5–10 minutes, or until
they just begin to brown and can be easily pierced with a
fork.
2. In a food processor combine garlic with soybeans, sesame
seeds, oil, vinegar, and parsley.
3. Blend until smooth and thick, adding salt, vinegar, and
bouillon to reach desired consistency and flavor. Spread on
crackers or veggies.
Yield: 1½ cupsFuture Space Food 195SOYBEAN SOUP
1½ cups drained, pre-cooked
soybeans
2 cups water
13/4cup chicken broth
1/4 cup chopped carrot
1/4 cup chopped green onions
1/2 tomato, chopped2 tsp dried thyme
2 tsp basil
1/2 tsp grated lemon zest
1 tsp lemon juice
Salt and pepper to taste
1/4 cup chopped celery
1 clove garlic, minced
1. Presoak soybeans.
2. Combine all ingredients and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and
simmer 30 minutes, stirring occasionally, until vegetables
are tender crisp.
Yield: 6 servings196 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSWEET AND SOUR TEMPEH
2–4 carrots, sliced
1 cup chopped green onions
1 bell pepper, cut into narrow strips
2 8-oz packages of tempeh
3–6 tbsp vegetable oil (for
browning)
1/3 cup vegetable oil (for cooking
carrots)1/2 tsp garlic powder
1–2 tsp ginger powder
1 12-oz can of pineapple chunks
(juice drained and reserved)
Cornstarch paste (2 tbsp
cornstarch and 2 tsp water)
Sauce:
½ cup water
½ cup vinegar
2 tbsp soy sauce6 tbsp brown sugar
Juice reserved from pineapple
chunks
1. Chop all vegetables and tempeh before cooking.
2. Cut tempeh into 16–18 pieces per package.
3. Add water, vinegar, soy sauce, brown sugar, and juice and
mix in a bowl.
4. Heat oil on medium in a skillet. As soon as a small piece of
tempeh sizzles when placed in oil, add remaining tempeh.
5. Brown tempeh until medium to dark brown. Remove and pat
dry to remove oil.
6. Heat 1/3 cup oil in a separate skillet on medium heat. Add
garlic, ginger, carrots, and onions. Saute ´until carrots are
slightly soft. Add sauce ingredients and bring to a boil.
7. Mix cornstarch paste and add 1–3 tbsp sauce to the paste.
Add this to the boiling vegetables and stir well. Reduce heat
to low and add pineapple chunks and green peppers. Let
cook until sauce thickens.
8. Serve tempeh on a bed of rice with sauce on top.
Yield: 4 servingsFuture Space Food 197SWEET POTATO BREAD (FIGURE 10.6)
1 cup + 1 tbsp water
1 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tsp dry active yeast
¼ cup + 2 tbsp sweet potato flour*3 cups unbleached all-purpose
flour
4 tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt
*The sweet potato flour should be available on the Internet. If
sweet potato flour is not available this dish can be made by
dehydrating sweet potato slices in a food dehydrator and then
blending the dried slices in a blender.
This recipe is for a 1½-lb loaf to be baked in a bread machine.
Follow the instructions for the bread machine.
Yield: 12 slices
FIGURE 10.6 Sweet potato bread.198 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKSWEET POTATO BISCUIT
1 medium sweet potato
6 tbsp vegetable oil
1/2 cup soy milk
1 tbsp sugar
1 egg beaten2½ cups unbleached all-purpose
flour
1 tbsp + 1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp salt
1. Preheat oven to 425 8F.
2. In a medium saucepan, cook sweet potato in boiling water
until tender when pierced with a knife, about 20 minutes.
3. Let the sweet potato cool, then peel it and mash until
smooth.
4. In a medium bowl stir the mashed sweet potato with oil until
smooth.
5. Stir in the remaining liquids and dry ingredients. Knead
briefly in the bowl to form a soft dough.
6. On a floured work surface, roll the dough to3/4in. thickness.
7. Using a cookie cutter, cut out biscuits. Transfer the biscuits
to an ungreased baking sheet and bake 15–20 minutes.
8. Serve hot.
Yield: 12 biscuits
TOFU CHEESECAKE
2 lb tofu
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup lemon juice
1 tsp lemon extract2 tsp vanilla extract
2 tbsp vegetable oil
1/4 tsp salt
1/2 cup honey
1. Preheat oven to 375 8F.
2. Blend tofu in a blender until smooth and creamy.
3. Blend in sugar, lemon juice, lemon and vanilla extracts, oil,
and salt. Blend in honey last.
4. Pour mixture into a crumb crust and bake for 40 minutes, or
until small cracks start to form on the surface.
5. Serve well chilled.
Yield: 6 servingsFuture Space Food 199WHOLE WHEAT BREAD
1 1/3 cup water
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 tsp yeast
2 tsp salt4 tbsp sugar
2 tbsp non-fat dry milk
3½ cups whole wheat flour
This recipe is for a 2-lb loaf to be baked in a bread machine.
Follow the instructions for the bread machine.
Yield: 12 slices
WHOLE WHEAT PANCAKES
1 cup whole wheat flour
1 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt1/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 cup soy or rice milk
Mix dry ingredients together; then mix in the soy milk. Cook in a
non-stick pan or on a griddle.
Yield: 9 pancakes200 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKAPPENDIX A
History of
American Space
Food
Mercury (1961–1963), Gemini (1965–1966)
and Apollo (1968–1972)
Early US space food was highly engineered to minimize mass
and volume and to prevent any possibility of food scraps con-
taminating the small cabins of the early NASA spacecraft.
Space menu items consisted primarily of pureed foods in
squeeze tubes, small cubed food items coated with an edible
film to prevent crumbs, and freeze-dried powdered food items.
It was agreed by most that early space food was, to say the least,
unappetizing.
As the NASA manned space program progressed in the
1960’s towards the first Moon landing in 1969, so did the food
system. The Gemini program saw a food system that included
formulation and packaging developments that were designed
specifically for the program. Due to restrictions in weight and
volume, concentrated foods were emphasized. Safety of the
food system was highly emphasized, with the testing procedures
developed for Gemini signaling the beginning of the Hazard
203Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) program, which is now
common practice for food safety around the world.
Apollo food systems introduced utensils to space dining with the
addition of the ‘‘spoonbowl’’ package, which allowed rehydrated food
items to be consumed from the package with a spoon. The package
had a wide zip-type opening and loops for a thumb and index finger.
The loops permitted easy control of the package in microgravity.
During the Apollo program, the use of thermostabilized canned
and pouched products in the US space program began. The real
challenge for space food became apparent even this early in manned
spaceflight—how to provide sufficient variety and quality to get the
crew members to actually eat the food. Regardless of nutritional
content, if the food was not consumed, the crew members’ health
was at risk. Crew members were returning from spaceflights with
decreased body weight, and food was returned uneaten, indicating
inadequate food consumption.
Skylab (1973–1974)
The Skylab space station of the mid-1970’s actually featured the most
sophisticated food system that NASA has ever flown in space to
date. Frozen and refrigerated food items were included as part of the
standard menu. To date, Skylab has been the only space project to
have this luxury. The Skylab astronauts also had a dining table for
meal consumption. Whether it was because of these advances or
because of metabolic studies performed on Skylab, these crews had
the highest percentage of actual versus planned food consumption for
any US crews to date.
The Space Shuttle (1981 to the Present)
As a short duration work vehicle, the shuttle had inadequate space
and not enough power to support refrigerator/freezers for food.
NASA reverted back to an all shelf-stable food system. A meal tray
was developed as a replacement for the bulky Skylab dining table. The
original packaging for the shuttle food system used rigid plastic boxes
with expandable lids for rehydratable foods and beverage items. As
the program evolved and crew size and mission duration increased,204 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKthe rigid packages were replaced with completely flexible packages
that could be compressed to take up less space in the trash.
The shuttle food program adapted many commercially available
food items for spaceflight. Although all items were repacked in
spaceflight approved packaging, some were used as is (cookies, crack-
ers, nuts), while others were further processed with freeze-drying
(vegetables). The use of commercial items provided significant cost
savings over the cost of developing unique foods for spaceflight. It
also provided more familiar food items to the crew members. The use
of commercial food items, however, has some disadvantages. Com-
panies would sometimes change the contents (‘‘New and Improved!’’)
or discontinue items altogether. Furthermore, commercial products
tend to be higher in fat, sodium, and sugar than preferred.
Besides expressing their preferences in choices offered, astro-
nauts have contributed to the food system by recommending or
actually bringing in favorite food samples for evaluation. Sally Ride,
the first American woman to fly in space, contributed to the space
food program by promoting personal preference menus. Hawaiian
Ellison Onizuka, tragically lost in the Challenger accident, was
responsible for adding Kona coffee and macadamia nuts to the
shuttle food list. Mission Specialist Mary Cleave and Payload Spe-
cialist Rodolfo Vela introduced tortillas to the shuttle menu in 1985.
Bruce McCandless, the first spacewalker to fly freely from a space-
craft in the Manned Maneuvering Unit, introduced trail mix. Includ-
ing astronauts in the space food decision process (people who actually
eat the food in space) has led to diversified menus and better-tasting
food. Experience has shown that very few adjustments to the crew-
selected menus are required to meet most nutritional requirements.
Shuttle/ MirPhase I Program (1995–1998)
Phase I of the International Space Station program saw US astro-
nauts living for long periods of time on the Russian Mirspace station
with cosmonauts. Space shuttle and Russian space foods were con-
sumed by astronauts and cosmonauts alike. As astronauts began to
stay for long periods of time aboard Mir, the importance of food to
crew members during the long months was magnified many times
over that of short duration shuttle missions. It was apparent that food
made significant psychological contributions to the crew. Post-flightAppendix A 205Mircrew debriefings revealed that thermostabilized items had far
better long-term acceptability than their freeze-dried counterparts. It
was also learned that increasing the variety of foods available to the
crew members was important to prevent menu fatigue.
The International Space Station (November 2000
to the Present)
Using funds originally designated for the development of refrigera-
tor/freezer-type foods (the planned refrigerator/freezer had been
eliminated due to budget cuts), NASA food specialists began a
new program to develop new shelf-stable food items. Product devel-
opment focused mainly on thermostabilized food. The ISS does not
create water with a fuel system, and so water is at a premium.
Thermostabilized items, more acceptable to crew palate, also do
not need water for reconstitution.
ISS food products were formulated to contain a lower level of
sodium and fat over commercially available thermostabilized pro-
ducts. Although new product development focused on ISS needs,
shuttle crews have benefited from the longer list of available foods for
their missions.
The US food list currently consists of about 185 foods and
beverages from which the shuttle and ISS crew members can build
their menus. The Russian food list adds about 100 additional items
to the total ISS food selection list.
Crews on the ISS eat a menu that is comprised equally of US
space food and Russian space food. Meals are rotated. One day, meals
consist of two American meals and one Russian meal plus a Russian
snack. The next day, it is one American and two Russian meals and
an American snack.
A 45-day contingency supply of food is maintained onboard
ISS. If not used, it becomes part of the next crew’s primary food, and
new contingency foods are delivered by either a space shuttle or a
Russian Progress vehicle. The contingency supply became especially
important during the shuttle grounding following the loss of the
space shuttle Columbia at the end of the STS-107 mission.
ISS flight menus are supplemented with a small quantity of
‘‘bonus food’’ each month. The bonus foods are chosen by the crew
and can be regular menu food items but often consist of commercially206 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKavailable candies, cookies, and crackers, not part of the standard ISS
menu. On each shuttle and Progress flight, a small quantity of fresh
food is stowed and transferred over to the ISS crew. This typically
consists of fresh fruit (apples, oranges) and fresh vegetables (carrot
sticks, onions, and garlic). Since refrigeration is not available, fresh
items must be consumed quickly by the crew.
Because of the lengthy nature of the ISS missions, crew mem-
bers settle into a more normal eating pattern than is possible on a
hectic shuttle flight. For this reason, food consumption rates are
much higher on the ISS but still not to the level observed during
theSkylab program.Appendix A 207APPENDIX B
ISS Expedition
Five (June to
December 2005)
Sample Crew
Menu for
Astronaut Peggy
Whitson
Meals are designed on an 8-day rotating basis. Notice the
alternating American and Russian menus. Russian mission
planners insist on a 4-meal day. Meal 4 is actually a snack.
The key to abbreviations is at the end of these charts.
209(CONTINUED)
DAY 1 DAY 2 DAY 3 DAY 4
Meal 1
Chicken w/
Prunes (T)Vegetable
Quiche (R)Omelet w/
Chicken (T)Plain Yogurt
(T)
Assorted
Vegetables (R)Beef Pattie (R) Sweet Peas w/
Milk Sauce (R)Seasoned
Scrambled Eggs
(R)
Cottage
Cheese/Nuts
(R)Dried Peaches
(NF)Cottage
Cheese/Nuts
(R)Cornflakes (R)
Wheat Bread
Enriched (IM)Shortbread
Cookies (R)Wheat Bread
Enriched (IM)Fruit Cocktail
(T)
Kuraga (IM) Kona Coffee w/
C&S (B)Kuraga (IM) Kona Coffee w/
C&S (B)
Coffee w/o
Sugar (B)Coffee w/o
Sugar (B)Pineapple Drink
(B)
Vitamins Vitamins
Meal 2
Jellied Pike
Perch (T)Mushroom
Soup (R)Appetizing
Appetizer (T)Split Pea Soup
(T)
Borsch w/
Meat (R)Tuna Noodle
Casserole (T)Peasant Soup
(R)Grilled Pork
Chop (T)
Beef w/
Vegetables (R)Pineapple (T) Homestyle Beef
(R)Macaroni &
Cheese (R)
Borodinskiy
Bread (IM)Candy Coated
Peanuts (NF)Moscow Rye
Bread (IM)Creamed
Spinach (R)
Peach-Black
Currant Juice
(R)Tea w/ Sugar
(B)Apple-Peach
Juice (R)Applesauce (T)
Tea w/ Sugar
(B)Tea w/o Sugar
(B)Tea (B)210 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKDAY 1 DAY 2 DAY 3 DAY 4
Meal 3
Lasagna w/
Meat (T)Vegetable
Spread (T)Meatloaf (T) Pike Perch in
Baltica Sauce
(T)
Pasta w/
Shrimp (R)Meat w/ Barley
Kasha (T)Mashed
Potatoes (R)Chicken w/ Rice
(T)
Asparagus (R) Borodinskiy
Bread (IM)Italian
Vegetables (R)Borodinsky
Bread (IM)
Dinner Roll
(NF)Russkoye
Cookies (NF)Shortbread
Cookies (NF)Visit Cracker
(NF)
Lemonade (B) Kuraga (IM) Tea w/ L&S (B) Prunes w/ Nuts
(IM)
Currant Tea w/
o Sugar (B)Green Tea w/o
Sugar (B)
Vitamins Vitamins
Meal 4
Dried Beef
(IM)Hazelnuts
(NF)Almonds (NF) Sweet Almonds
(NF)
Cashews (NF) Apple Dessert
(T)Strawberries
(R)Kuraga (IM)
Peaches (T) Peach-Black
Currant Juice
(R)Lemonade w/
A/S (B)Apple-Black
Currant Juice
(R)
Grape Drink
(B)Appendix B 211(CONTINUED)
DAY 5 DAY 6 DAY 7 DAY 8
Meal 1
Meat in Jelly
(T)Oatmeal w/
Raisins (R)Chicken w/
Eggs (T)Raspberry
Yogurt (T)
Mashed
Potatoes/
Onion (R)Breakfast
Sausage Links
(I)Buckwheat
Gruel w/ Milk
(R)Scrambled Eggs
(R)
Cottage
Cheese/Apple
(T)Dried Apricots
(IM)Quince Bar
(IM)Oatmeal w/
Brown Sugar
(R)
Wheat Bread
Enriched (IM)Strawberry
Breakfast Drink
(B)Honey Cake
(IM)Kona Coffee w/
C&S (B)
Apple-Apricot
Bar (IM)Peach-Apricot
Drink (B)Coffee w/
Sugar (B)Orange-
Grapefruit
Drink (B)
Coffee w/
Sugar (B)Vitamins
Vitamins
Meal 2
Spiced Pike
Perch (T)Split Pea Soup
(T)Bream in
Tomato Sauce
(T)Beef Stew (T)
Sauerkraut
Soup (R)Grilled Chicken
(T)Pureed
Vegetable Soup
(R)Rice w/ Butter
(T)
Lamb w/
Vegetables (T)Noodles &
Chicken (R)Veggie Ragout
w/ Meat (R)Wheat Flat
Bread (NF)
Borodinskiy
Bread (IM)Broccoli au
Gratin (R)Moscow Rye
Bread (IM)Cauliflower w/
Cheese (R)
Apple-Black
Currant Juice
(R)Shortbread
Cookies (NF)Peach-Apricot
Juice (R)Trail Mix (IM)212 THE ASTRONAUT’S COOKBOOKDAY 5 DAY 6 DAY 7 DAY 8
Tea w/o Sugar
(B)Orange-
Pineapple Drink
(B)Tea w/o Sugar
(R)Apple Cider (B)
Meal 3
BBQ Brisket (I) Sturgeon (T) Shrimp
Cocktail (R)Meat w/
Buckwheat
Gruel (T)
Potatoes au
Gratin (R)Beef Goulash
(T)Chicken Fajitas
(T)Mashed
Potatoes/
Onion (R)
Green Beans/
Mushrooms
(R)Stewed Cabbage
(R)Tortillas (NF) Moscow Rye
Bread (IM)
Pears (T) Table Bread
(IM)Corn (R) Milk (R)
Butter Cookies
(NF)Prunes w/ Nuts
(IM)Peach
Ambrosia (R)Apples w/ Nuts
(IM)
Orange-Mango
Drink (B)Tea w/o Sugar
(B)Tea w/ Lemon
(B)Tea w/ Sugar
(B)
Vitamins Vitamins
Meal 4
Chicken Salad
(R)Hazelnuts (NF) Cheddar
Cheese Spread
(T)Visit Crackers
(NF)
Crackers (NF)
x2Plum-Cherry
Dessert (IM)Crackers (NF)
x2Rossiyskiy
Cheese (T)
Grapefruit
Drink (B)Grape-Plum
Juice w/ Pulp
(R)Tropical Punch
(B)Apple-Plum
Bar (IM)
Apricot Juice
(R)
B, beverage; IM, intermediate moisture; I, irradiated; R, rehydratable; T, thermostabilized; NF, natural form.Appendix B 213APPENDIX C
Internet
Resources on
Space Food
and Nutrition
NASA Space Food Sites
http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/living/spacefood/index.html
http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/shuttle/reference/factsheets/food.html
NASA Educator Guide on Space Food and Nutrition
http://www.nasa.gov/audience/foreducators/topnav/materials/
listbytype/Space_Food_and_Nutrition_Educator_Guide.html
National Public Radio Stories About Space Food
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=10792763
NASA Food Technology Commercial Space Center
at Iowa State University College of Agriculture
http://www.ag.iastate.edu/centers/ftcsc/index.htm
215Index
A
Altair, 179
Apollo, 1, 25, 79
Apollo program, 23, 84, 144, 204
Apollo-Soyuz , 56, 124, 143
Ares I, 179
Ares V, 179
Astronaut, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16,
17, 21, 24, 26, 29, 30, 31, 32, 35, 36, 39,
40–41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 55,
56, 58, 59, 67, 69, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78,
79, 83, 84, 85, 86, 107, 109, 111, 112, 113,
115, 119, 120, 121, 123, 136, 137, 138,
141, 142, 143, 144–145, 157, 158, 159,
161, 163–164, 167, 168, 169, 170, 172,
173, 174, 175, 179, 180, 181, 184, 204,
205, 209–213
B
Baikonur Cosmodrome, 32
Bill Nelson, 50
Bill Pogue, 69
Bill Thornton, 144, 172
Bone loss, 12, 144
Buoyancy, 17
C
Charles Bourland, 44–46, 85–86, 122,
142–143, 170–171, 172, 183
Charlie Duke, 173
Chlorine, 21
Condiments, 9–10, 80, 83, 143
Connie Stadler, 70, 162
Cosmonaut, 4, 55, 58, 59, 170, 180, 205D
Deke Slayton, 79, 145
E
Earth Departure Stage (EDS), 179
Ed White, 79
Emeril Lagasse, 20
F
Food and Drug Administration, 20
Food laboratory, 11, 23, 29, 34, 36, 41,
44, 84, 120, 141, 142, 168, 169,
170, 182
Freeze dehydration, 23, 43
Friendship 7 ,2 2
Fuel cells, 7, 167, 168, 172
G
Gemini program, 17, 167, 203
Gerald Carr, 108, 109, 111
Gherman Titov, 4
Gloria Mongan, 105–106, 171
Grace Nelson, 50
Gravity, 15, 16, 46, 171, 180, 181, 183
Gus Grissom, 78
H
Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(HACCP), 24
I
In-suit bar, 42, 51
Intermediate moisture foods, 8–9, 25
217International Space Station (ISS), 8, 9,
18, 19, 31, 32, 49, 55, 64, 67, 68, 76,
77, 84, 105, 120, 121, 159, 160, 170,
172, 179, 180, 182, 205, 206–207,
209–213
Iodize, 21–25
Ionizing radiation, 9
Irradiated meat, 9
J
Jack Lousma, 84
Jan Davis, 48
John Glenn, Jr, 22
John Glenn, Jr. and applesauce, 4
John Young, 5, 74, 78
Joseph Kerwin, 84, 168
K
Karen Ross, 158
Ken Mattingly, 145
Ken Reightler, 113, 136
Kidney stones, 13
L
Leroy Chiao, 49
Linda and Dick Gordon, 110
L Minus 1, 30
Lyophlization, 145
M
Mary Cleave, 74, 75, 205
Mercury program, 119
Microbial check valve, 21
Microgravity, 12, 14–20, 29, 30, 31, 58, 62,
73, 77, 80, 85, 121, 124, 126, 144, 164,
168, 169, 171, 175, 204
Mike Mulane, 161
Mildred Bondar, 163–164
Millie Hughes-Fulford, 138
MirSpace Station, 55, 58, 59, 180, 205
MRE (meals ready to eat), 8, 24
N
National Academy of Sciences Dietary
Reference Intakes (DRI), 12
Natural form foods, 9O
Off-gassing, 17, 26
P
Pandora and Bob
Crippen, 112
Paula Hall, 68, 105, 160
Paul Weitz, 114, 115
Peggy Whitson, 209–213
Progress cargo ship, 32
R
Rachael Ray, 20, 96–101, 104, 133
Rehydratable food, 6–8, 11, 204
Rehydration, 20, 24, 25, 31, 32, 124,
167, 175
Retort pouch, 8, 9, 19, 20, 24, 51, 60, 61,
64, 65, 66, 67, 87, 88, 92, 95, 115, 125,
126, 127, 128, 139, 146, 147, 148, 149,
151, 152, 156, 157, 165
Rhea Seddon, 57, 137
Roberta Bondar, 163–164
Rodolfo Vela, 74, 205
Roger Chaffee, 79
S
Saturn V, 40, 179
Sedimentation, 17
Septum, 19, 175
Skylab , 17, 21, 30, 40–41, 44, 45, 46, 64, 69,
70, 74, 84, 107, 109, 115, 119, 120, 124,
142, 162, 168, 169, 170, 171, 204, 207
Solar panels, 8
Sonny Carter, 86
Soyuz , 32, 183
Space capsule, 5, 23
Space Cola War, 168
Space Food Development
Laboratory, 20
Space food stick, 32
Space shuttle, 5, 7, 8, 11, 19, 21, 26, 30,
33, 42, 56, 58, 74, 79, 84, 119, 120,
142, 146, 159, 164, 168, 172, 180,
204–205, 206
Spoonbowl package, 18, 24, 204
Surface tension, 16, 19218 INDEXT
Thermostabilized food, 8, 206
U
Urine collection device (UCD), 119
V
Vacuum-sealing, 73Van Allen radiation belt,
4, 180
VelcroTM,3 9
W
Wally Schirra, 78
Waste collection system (WCS), 122–123
World Health Organization (WHO), 12INDEX 219