 xiIntroduction
As a kid, I was a history bu ff and would have 
been called a nerd if the word had existed 
then. I loved fantasizing about what historical fig-
ures were really like as people and imagining what 
it would have been like to live during their times.
I first became fascinated with Alexander 
Hamilton’s world through a book called George 
Washington’s World .1 A 1940s classic, it has capti-
vated generations of young readers because it takes 
an unusual approach for a history book. While cen-
tered on the life of George Washington (Hamilton’s 
friend and mentor), it is much more than a biog-
raphy. Author Genevieve Foster provides context 
for Washington’s development, accomplishments, 
and character by providing vignettes about famous 
people and events that shaped his world. Reading 
about George Washington’s life in the context of 
his times was a revelation to me. What that book 
taught me has stayed with me through my entire 
life, and it has encouraged me to look at historical 
events and famous people in context, rather than 
focusing on them in isolation.
There is another aspect to my interest—some 
might say, obsession—with historical context. 
When learning about famous people, I’m always fas-
cinated by how they lived. The details of daily living 
tell you so much about a person. I’ll take any detail I can get, whether it’s about their families, their taste 
in books, the phrases they liked to repeat, or most 
important for this book, the food they ate. 
Alexander Hamilton is all the rage these days. 
His life and accomplishments draw us in. Whether 
you’re a history bu ff or just like a good story, Ham-
ilton is the central character in a fascinating tale. 
Despite the success of the Broadway play 
Hamilton , not everyone knows his story. Chapter 
1 provides a summary of his too-brief and often 
tumultuous life. Using his life as a jumping o ff point, 
we will explore what Alexander Hamilton’s world 
was like, with an emphasis on food. The timeline at 
the end of Chapter 1 puts Hamilton’s life in context 
of the world around him, with each noted event 
in his life paired with a historical event and a food 
event or fact from the same year. Chapter 2 provides 
an overview of life in the 18th century West Indies 
and Colonial/Post-Independence America, the  
two places he lived. Chapters 3 and 4 go into 
more depth on the food, cooking, and dining in 
Hamilton’s world. Chapter 5 o ffers recipes from 
Hamilton’s time, both in their original format ( from 
cookbooks of that era, except for one from a hand-
written note) and in a modern version. 
What might it have been like to dine with Ham-
ilton at his own home or in places where we know xii | The Hamilton Cookbookhe ate? What was it like to make meals for Hamilton 
and his family? What foods might they have eaten 
and what recipes were popular at the time? 
Alexander Hamilton was born in the mid-1750s 
and was killed in a duel in 1804. His life spanned 
the colonial era into what is often termed the “early 
Federalist period. ” We will call the roughly 50-year 
span of his life “Hamilton’s era” or “Hamilton’s time” 
for purposes of de fining the period covered by our 
journey. 
We do not know a lot about what Hamilton 
actually ate. While he wrote lengthy pamphlets and 
essays about current events, economics, law, and 
politics and he corresponded at length with friends 
and family, he didn’t seem to pay much attention in 
his writing to food.2
However, we do have descriptions of meals he 
ate as a guest, particularly when the dinner became part of American history. For example, we know 
what George Washington and Thomas Jefferson 
served at dinners to which they invited Hamilton 
(see Chapter 4). We also know enough about his 
family and where he lived to understand what 
dishes he likely ate and how they would have been 
prepared. 
With a bit of imagination and the culinary 
equivalent of dramatic license, we will journey back 
to Hamilton’s era to learn about, and taste, dishes 
that range from simple breakfast foods to main 
courses at dinner and lovely sweets to end a meal.
These recipes in their original form are 
excerpted from cookbooks popular during Hamil-
ton’s time. The modernized versions of those recipes 
bring the dish into the twenty- first century, using 
modern language, ingredients, proportions, and 
kitchen equipment.Chapter 1
Alexander Hamilton: 
Who Was He?Alexander Hamilton: Who Was He? | 3Alexander Hamilton was undoubtedly an 
extraordinary man; he was also an extra-
ordinarily complicated man.3 His accomplishments 
are so many and varied that it is hard to believe 
that one man did all that he did in 49 years. He 
wrote poetry, reams of essays and other papers 
on political philosophy and economic theory, and 
he published political pamphlets and voluminous 
reports on the inner workings of government. A mil-
itary hero and strategist, he was a talented lawyer 
who argued in front of the Supreme Court, and he 
created our financial system that has lasted for 
hundreds of years. He called for the establishment 
of a military college (West Point), ran a govern-
ment department, was a trustee of a college that he 
left without graduating, and wrote /T_he Federalist 
Papers , the pre-eminent exposition on the U.S. Con-
stitution. All this while also being a devoted family 
man and maintaining friendships in an age when 
communication meant talking directly in person or 
writing a letter in longhand.
Yet Hamilton was flawed and inconsistent. He 
railed against slavery while bene fitting from it, and 
claimed to be against duels while participating in 
them. He remained married to the same woman 
and professed great love for her, yet he deceived 
her and engaged in a torrid, long-term a ffair with a 
younger woman.
Prints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs Division, Library of Congr ess, Washington, DC
Portrait of Alexander Hamilton by John Trumbull4 | The Hamilton CookbookThe Early Years
Hamilton’s early life would bring tears to the eyes of 
even the most hard-hearted reader. 
His mother, Rachel Faucette, was of French 
Huguenot and British ancestry. At the age of 
sixteen, while living on the island of St. Croix, she 
married a Dane named Johann Michael Lavien. At 
least twelve years older than Rachel and apparently 
not a pleasant man (to put it mildly), Lavien had her 
thrown in prison after she refused to continue living 
with him. In 1750, after Rachel was released from 
prison, she fled to St. Kitts, a nearby island settled by the French and English, leaving her husband 
with their infant son.
On St. Kitts, Rachel, then in her early twenties, 
met James Hamilton, a thirty-something Scotsman 
who had arrived on the island about ten years prior. 
In short order they had two sons, James Jr. in 1753 
and Alexander in 1755.4 Rachel was still married 
to Lavien during those years, so the boys were 
illegitimate.
After James got a new job on St. Croix and the 
family moved there, he abandoned them when 
Birthplace of Alexander Hamilton, Nevis, West Indies
Prints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs Division,  
Library of Congress, Washington, DCAlexander Hamilton: Who Was He? | 5Alexander Hamilton was about ten years old. 
Hamilton never saw his father again, although later 
Hamilton wrote to his father and regularly sent him 
money. As an adult, Hamilton even urged his father, 
unsuccessfully, to move to the United States.
Rachel Hamilton managed as a single parent by 
running a grocery store, living above it with her two 
boys. However, less than 18 months after she settled 
into life as a shopkeeper, Rachel and Alexander 
both became horribly sick, and Rachel died. Their 
sickness and her death were made worse by the 
medical “cures” of the day which included emetics, 
medicinal herbs to help a patient emit gas, enemas, 
and bloodletting. Rachel had few possessions and 
even those did not go to the orphaned Hamilton 
boys after Lavien swooped in to claim them for the 
son she had left behind with him. 
The two penniless, pre-teen boys ended up 
in the care of their uncle-by-marriage, a widower 
named Peter Lytton. (Peter’s wife, Rachel’s older 
sister, had died before Rachel.) Less than two years 
after Rachel’s death, Peter Lytton died too, appar-
ently, a suicide. He left them nothing and Peter’s 
own father, who tried to help the boys, died a short 
time later. At this point, the brothers parted ways; 
James Jr. was apprenticed to a carpenter and Alex-
ander, who had already begun to clerk in a trading 
house, left to live with the family of a merchant 
named Thomas Stevens. Hamilton formed a lifelong 
friendship with one of the Stevens’s five children, Edward, who later became a physician and who, 
in 1793, saved the lives of Hamilton and his wife 
during a yellow fever epidemic.
Why would a respected family take in a poor boy 
left alone in the world? And why take in one brothe r 
and not the other? Hamilton’s biographer Ron 
Chernow speculates that Hamilton might have been 
Thomas Stevens’s illegitimate son. Chernow found 
evidence of this possibility, including descriptions 
of a rather startling resemblance between Hamilton 
and his friend Edward Stevens. In any case, this turn 
of events was a lucky break for Alexander Hamilton. 
Without family, funds, or formal education, 
Hamilton was truly a self-made man. A voracious 
reader even before his mother died, he continued 
to read prodigiously throughout his life. Hamilton 
learned French well enough that native French 
speakers complimented him. When it came to busi-
ness matters, he was also a quick study. As a clerk 
at a trading house, Hamilton learned how to trade 
the local crops, sugar, molasses and rum, for timber, 
flour, and other supplies. When the head of the firm 
became ill and could not work for a period, he left 
Hamilton, still a teenager, in charge. Hamilton also 
began to write at that time. Beginning with poetry 
and then moving to a first-person account of a hur-
ricane that struck St. Croix, Hamilton caught the 
eye of local power brokers when his writings were 
published in the local paper. That attention served 
him well, as in 1773 they took up a collection to 6 | The Hamilton Cookbookfund his travel to the American colonies so that he 
could attend college.
Hamilton’s Move to  
the American Colonies
Once Hamilton arrived in the American colonies, he 
began his formal studies with energy and impa-
tience. After a short time at a preparatory academy 
in New Jersey, Hamilton sought admissions accep-
tance to Princeton. When the school would not 
agree to accelerate his studies to suit him, Ham-
ilton instead went to King’s College (which later 
became Columbia University). Hamilton intended 
to become a physician, but he became drawn to 
debating and political pursuits. In fact, he never 
graduated from college because the Revolutionary 
War intervened. After the war, he “read” the law 
instead of attending law school, learning the req-
uisite materials on his own rather than through a 
formal school program. At both his undergraduate 
and law studies, Hamilton pursued an accelerated 
schedule. In the case of his law studies, Hamilton 
did the required work to pass the bar in about a 
year instead of the typical three years. 
While at King’s College, Hamilton became a 
Patriot activist. He wrote, spoke, and took part in 
paramilitary actions in support of the Patriot cause. 
But perhaps even more notable was his action 
stopping an angry mob of Patriot students from 
attacking a teacher with Loyalist (British) sympa-
thies. In that incident, saving the teacher even though he disagreed with his politics, Hamilton 
showed the physical and moral courage that would 
become a hallmark of his later years. 
The Revolutionary War Years
At age twenty-one, Hamilton left King’s College 
(without graduating) and joined the Continental 
Army as an artillery captain. He was popular 
among his men, sharing their hardships, treating 
them respectfully, and staying cool under stressful 
combat conditions. 
Once General Washington learned of Hamil-
ton’s leadership skills and other talents first-hand 
during the retreat from New York across New Jersey 
to Pennsylvania, he promoted Hamilton to his own 
staff and made him a lieutenant colonel. In 1777, 
Hamilton began a mentor/friendship relationship 
with Washington that was to last until Washington’s 
death in 1799. Hamilton was Washington’s trusted 
aide, who spoke for him with authority and whom 
Washington trusted to write letters and commu-
nicate directly with others on Washington’s behalf. 
While their personalities were not always compat-
ible (at one point Hamilton was so disgruntled that 
he left Washington’s sta ff), Washington remained a 
source of support for Hamilton throughout the next 
twenty-two years. At crucial moments when others 
doubted Hamilton or stood in his path, Washington 
stayed calmly by his side. 
During the Revolutionary War, Hamilton 
distinguished himself in battle and remained with Alexander Hamilton: Who Was He? | 7Washington during the grueling winters at Valley 
Forge and Morristown, NJ. Even when the condi-
tions were di fficult, officers had living arrangements 
that seem odd to our modern sensibilities. For 
example, during the war in the winter of 1779–1780, 
Martha Washington lived near Morristown, NJ, 
and Hamilton and other o fficers were treated to 
receptions and fancy dress balls featuring young 
women from nearby who came to socialize with 
them. Hamilton was known as a flirt, and he clearly enjoyed the social aspects of his military service. 
Martha Washington witnessed Hamilton’s charm 
first-hand when she entertained the o fficers on 
behalf of her husband. 
Hamilton’s future wife, twenty-two-year-old 
Elizabeth Schuyler, came on the scene when she 
arrived in Morristown to live with her aunt and 
uncle, Washington’s personal physician. Within just 
a few months, Hamilton and Elizabeth, whom he 
called Eliza or Betsey, decided to marry. 
Elizabeth came from a large, well-to-do and 
prominent family with strong roots to the Dutch 
community in Albany, New York. (Her parents both 
came from wealthy families and her mother was a 
Van Rennselaer.) Hamilton liked the Schuyler family 
and found that it provided him entrée into political 
and social circles throughout his life. Elizabeth 
did not have formal schooling. Contemporaneous 
accounts describe her energy and sparkling eyes 
but she was not considered a great beauty.
Alexander and Elizabeth married at the 
Schuyler home in 1780 when he was twenty- five and 
she was twenty-three. Hamilton had no family and 
only one friend in attendance at the small wedding. 
The Hamiltons returned to the Schuyler home 
in Albany frequently throughout their marriage. 
Sometimes together, other times individually or 
accompanied by some or all of their children, 
Alexander and Elizabeth spent weeks, months, and, 
in one case, two years living at the mansion with 
Elizabeth’s family.
Prints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs Division, Library of Congr ess, Washington, DC
Portrait of Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton8 | The Hamilton CookbookAfter a short honeymoon, Hamilton returned 
to the war. Elizabeth soon followed and they lived 
in New Windsor, New York, where Elizabeth helped 
Martha Washington entertain the troops. Hamilton 
left Washington’s sta ff, disgruntled with his position 
there, but he remained in the military and person-
ally close to Washington until the latter’s death in 
1799, almost twenty years later. Hamilton served 
in the Continental Army throughout the rest of 
the Revolutionary War, and was leading troops at 
Yorktown when Cornwallis surrendered to General 
Washington in October 1781.The Post-War Period
The Hamilton family moved back to Albany for 
two years after the war ended and their first child, 
Philip, was born there. Alexander Hamilton became 
a lawyer, writing his own 177-page, 38-topic study 
guide for the bar examination that was so impres-
sive, others used it as their own study guide for 
years afterward. After joining the bar, he opened a 
law practice in Albany and wrote essays on eco-
nomics, trade, and taxation on the side. 
Hamilton soon became a delegate to the 
Congress of the Confederation in Philadelphia, the 
governing body of the United States after the states 
ratified the Articles of Confederation and before 
the Constitution created Congress and our current 
form of government. 
In 1783, Hamilton moved his family to lower 
Manhattan where they lived for a number of years. 
Hamilton’s professional life must have seemed a 
veritable whirlwind. He participated in politics 
(including being a delegate to the Constitutional 
Convention in 1787), practiced law, founded the 
Bank of New York, and created and wrote the 
majority of /T_he Federalist Papers . 
The sheer magnitude of how much Hamilton 
wrote and the speed at which he did, is staggering. 
Hamilton authored fifty-two of the eighty- five essays 
that comprise that seminal explanation of the United 
States Constitution. He wrote twenty-one of these 
essays in a two-month period and on two di fferent 
occasions, he wrote five of the essays within a week.
 Prints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs 
Division, Library of Congress, Washington, DC
Photograph of the drawing room of the Schuyler mansion, 
Albany, NYAlexander Hamilton: Who Was He? | 9Hamilton: Husband, Father,  
and Friend
When he conceived and wrote /T_he Federalist Papers , 
Hamilton was thirty-two years old. He had three 
children and a fourth on the way, and was working 
as a lawyer to support his growing family.
Serious, even single-minded when it came to 
his professional life, Hamilton was warm and tender 
toward his family. He enjoyed playing music with 
his daughter Angelica and gave advice on studying 
to his oldest son, Philip. Following up on his early 
interest in medicine, he often gave medical advice 
to Elizabeth on how to care for the children when 
they became sick. As their family grew, Elizabeth 
would take the younger children to Albany and 
leave the older ones with Alexander. Letters to 
Elizabeth reveal a devoted and demonstrably a ffec-
tionate husband. 
The Hamilton family must have been an active 
and rather boisterous household. In all, Alexander 
and Elizabeth had eight children in twenty years. 
On top of that, they took in other children who 
needed a home. In one case, the daughter of a fellow 
King’s College graduate and Revolutionary War vet-
eran stayed with the Hamiltons for ten years after 
her mother died and her father fell on hard times. In 
another example, they took in the Marquis de Lafay-
ette’s son while his father was imprisoned after the 
French Revolution. Although Elizabeth certainly 
shouldered the bulk of the family responsibilities, Hamilton also participated in the care of the family, 
in normal times and when sickness struck. For 
example, he nursed his oldest son Philip back to 
health after Philip almost died of a fever in 1798.
Hamilton had many friends of varied back-
grounds. He kept up his friendship with Edward 
Stevens, from the family who took him in on St. 
Croix, and made new friends in New York, including 
an Irish tailor named Hercules Mulligan, who 
became a spy for the Patriot cause during the Rev-
olutionary War, as well as fellow students at King’s 
College. During the War, he befriended the Marquis 
de Lafayette and a number of others with whom he 
served. 
In the military he met John Laurens, the son of 
a wealthy South Carolinian, who died tragically at 
the end of the Revolutionary War, barely five years 
after their friendship began. His friendship with 
Laurens was particularly close, and they exchanged 
letters that have a frank and intimate tone. Both 
men developed a deep friendship with the Marquis 
de Lafayette. Historians and Hamilton biographers 
have wondered about the true nature of several 
of Hamilton’s relationships, including those with 
Laurens and Lafayette. But there is no de finitive 
evidence that those men were anything other than 
close friends.
Another of Hamilton’s relationships that 
has drawn scrutiny is that with his wife’s sister, 
Angelica Schuyler Church. One year older than her 10 | The Hamilton Cookbooksister Elizabeth, Angelica had already eloped with 
Englishman John Church before Hamilton met Eliz-
abeth. The Churches were quite wealthy and spent a 
number of years living in Europe. At one point, John 
Church named Alexander Hamilton as his business 
agent in the United States. 
Angelica Church and Alexander Hamilton 
were close, exchanging frequent chatty and even 
flirtatious letters, and visiting whenever they had 
the chance. Although some have speculated that 
the relationship was more than friendship, it does 
not appear that neither John Church nor Elizabeth 
Hamilton was concerned about the relationship 
between Angelica and Alexander. Indeed, not 
only were Angelica and her sister Elizabeth close, 
John Church and Alexander Hamilton did busi-
ness together. In fact, John Church and Alexander 
Hamilton brokered a business deal with (ironically) 
Aaron Burr—a deal that ended badly. As a result, 
Burr and Church dueled in 1799, five years before 
the Burr/Hamilton duel, but they did not injure 
each other.
Hamilton had a reputation for being charming 
in social settings and both Alexander and Eliza-
beth enjoyed entertaining. Ron Chernow, author 
of an extensively researched Hamilton biography, 
describes their home as “elegant but unostenta-
tious. ” As hosts, they would have used the gold 
embossed porcelain tableware that they had 
received as a gift from the wealthy Churches. 
They also relished going to the theater and being guests at teas and fancy parties at the homes of the 
Washingtons; John Jay and his wife, the Binghams of 
Philadelphia; and others.
Hamilton and Slavery
Hamilton’s relationship to slavery was by no means 
straightforward. Growing up in the West Indies, he 
must have seen the incredible brutality and cruelty 
of the slave system up close. But even his very poor 
mother owned slaves. When he went to college, 
some of his fellow students, notably George Wash-
ington’s stepson, Jacky Custis, brought household 
slaves with them to school. Unlike Washington 
and Jefferson, Hamilton did not hold racist views, 
expressing the belief that “their [black people’s] 
faculties are as good as ours. ”5 
When Hamilton was barely thirty years old, 
he was part of a small group that founded the New 
York Society for Promoting the Manumission of 
Slaves. That group campaigned against slavery and 
promoted its gradual elimination. At the same time, 
throughout his life, Hamilton was the bene ficiary 
of slave labor in direct and personal ways that 
must have been apparent to him. His inlaws, the 
Schuylers, certainly owned slaves, as did his sister 
and brother-in-law, Angelica and John Church. So 
too did the Washingtons, Je fferson, and probably 
everyone else in Hamilton’s social circle. He ate 
meals prepared by slaves and lived in an environ-
ment and an economy made possible only by slave 
labor, even in New York City. Alexander Hamilton: Who Was He? | 11The evidence as to whether the Hamilton 
family owned slaves is unclear, though Chernow 
speculates that they may have had one or two 
household slaves. In any event, Hamilton person-
ally arranged transactions involving the purchase 
of slaves for the Churches. Regardless of his views 
on racial equality and e fforts to eliminate slavery, 
Hamilton condoned it and enjoyed the bene fits of 
the slave system.
Hamilton Serving the United  
States of America
Within months of becoming the first President of 
the United States, George Washington established 
the Treasury Department and named Alexander 
Hamilton as its head. Hamilton is well known for 
the visionary approach he took in creating the 
federal economic structure that exists even today. 
His administrative skills may be less recognized, but 
they were crucial to the success of the early years of 
the federal economic system. Hamilton took charge 
of the details of federal finances and operated 
the Treasury Department from 1789 to 1795 with 
incredible energy and attention to detail. 
The Reynolds A ffair
While he served as Secretary of the Treasury (when 
he was in his mid- to late thirties), Hamilton and his 
family lived in Philadelphia, on what is now Walnut 
Street, near his o ffices at the Treasury Department. 
During that time, he had an a ffair with 23-year-old Maria Reynolds. Hamilton carried on the a ffair 
even at his own home, and deceived his wife so that 
she would not find out about it. The affair lasted 
about 18 months and, not surprisingly, the cover-up 
turned out to be much worse than the “crime. ” 
Reynolds’ husband and a friend of Reynolds black-
mailed Hamilton; at some point, Maria joined the 
conspiracy to extort money from Hamilton to keep 
the affair quiet. Once Hamilton’s political enemies 
heard of the a ffair and cover-up, they accused Ham-
ilton of using his government o ffice as Secretary of 
the Treasury in connection with the hush money 
payments. ( Those who sought to take advantage of 
Hamilton’s dalliance included James Madison, his 
former friend and fellow Federalist Papers  essayist.) 
Hamilton did not deny the a ffair or the payments 
once they became known, but he adamantly 
insisted that it was purely a private indiscretion and 
that he had never abused the public trust. The affair 
haunted him, particularly as it become fodder for 
his enemies even years later. Through it all, Eliza-
beth stood by him. When the sordid tale became 
known, Hamilton seemed contrite and more atten-
tive to both his wife and his growing family. 
Hamilton’s Last Years
By 1795, Hamilton realized that he needed to leave 
government service and return to a private law 
practice to support his family. He had spent most 
of his twenties in the army earning little and, of 
course, he had no family inheritance. In addition, hi s 12 | The Hamilton Cookbookinvestments could not provide his family a financial 
cushion. As Secretary of the Treasury Hamilton 
earned $3,500 a year (less than $100,000 in current 
dollars and perhaps as little as $64,000), and he h ad 
borrowed money both from his old friend Robert 
Troup and his brother-in-law John Church to make 
ends meet. As a lawyer he did well but was not 
always concerned with collecting his fees. 
Although Hamilton returned to his law practice 
to provide for his family, he did not manage to save 
money during the years after he left the Treasury Department. To a signi ficant extent, his inability to 
build a nest egg at that time was due to yet another 
period of government service. He accepted another 
military appointment, this time to help put down 
rebellions against federal taxes, which he had 
championed.6 Then, after he returned to private 
life, Hamilton went into debt in the first years of 
the 19th century building a new home, called The 
Grange, in what is now Harlem, NY. When Hamilton 
died in 1804, he left Elizabeth and their children 
destitute. 
Drawing of The Grange by OH.F. Langman
Prints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs Division, Library of Congr ess, Washington, DCAlexander Hamilton: Who Was He? | 13The last few years of Alexander Hamilton’s 
life were, like his beginnings, filled with personal 
tragedy. In 1801, his oldest child, Philip, died in 
a duel in Weehawken, the same location where 
Hamilton would later duel with Aaron Burr. Philip 
had agreed to the duel to defend his father’s honor 
and died when, at his father’s suggestion, he did not 
shoot his challenger. The death not only devastated 
Hamilton and his wife, it caused their second child, 
Angelica, to su ffer a mental breakdown from which 
she never recovered. Two years after Philip’s death, the Hamiltons had their eighth child, a boy named 
Philip after his older brother. A year later, in 1803, 
Elizabeth’s mother died suddenly. 
Hamilton’s own death, in the famous 1804 
duel with Aaron Burr, was the result of a long-sim-
mering feud between the two men. They had known 
each other for decades and had even served as 
co-counsel in a recent high-pro file murder case. Yet 
they disliked each other and had plotted against 
each other in various political arenas for years. 
Burr challenged Hamilton to a duel over relatively 
inconsequential comments Hamilton allegedly had 
made about Burr’s character. Hamilton did not aim 
his only shot at Burr, while Burr shot Hamilton in 
the lower abdomen. The next day Hamilton died in 
New York City with his wife Elizabeth by his side. He 
left her with debts, seven children (the youngest of 
whom was two), and no visible means of support. 
Her father died just a few months later. Elizabeth 
lived to be ninety-seven years old and spent much 
of the remaining fifty years of her life working for 
widows and orphans and to preserve her husband’s 
memory and legacy.
Following is a chronology of Alexander Hamilton’s 
life, along with contemporaneous historical events 
and food facts:
The Grange interior, looking into the dining roomPrints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs Division, Library of Congr ess, Washington, DC14 | The Hamilton CookbookTimeline of Alexander Hamilton’s Life
YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
   In History
In Food
In Hamilton’s Life
Early 1750s  King’s College Founded (later Columbia University) — 1754
Benjamin Thompson (later Count von Rumford) is born. He invented the 
Rumford ﬁreplace (a precursor to the modern stove), the percolator, and 
a double boiler. He also introduced the potato as a staple food in Central 
Europe (1753).
Hamilton’s parents, Rachel & James, meet in St. Kitts, British West Indies. 
Their son James Jr. (Alexander’s older brother) is born in 1753.
1755  The ﬁrst steam engine is installed in America. The engine, installed in a 
copper mine owned by one of Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton’s relatives, 
pumps water from the mine. 
Oliver Evans, the inventor of the ﬁrst automatic ﬂou r mill, is born in Delaware.
Alexander Hamilton is born in St. Kitts, Britsh West Indies. 
1765 9 years oldBritain enacts the Stamp Act, the ﬁrst direct British tax on the colonists, 
and the Quartering Act, requiring colonists to temporarily house British 
soldiers.
Tradition says that the ﬁrst modern restaurant is created by a M. Boulanger 
in Paris. (This has since been debunked, but remains a popular tale.)
Hamilton, his mother, & older brother move to Christiansted on St. Croix, where 
his father had a new job.The Hamilton Cookbook | 15YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1766 10 years oldAfter months of protest by the American colonists, Britain repeals the 
Stamp Act. Despite the repeal, the Act has galvanized the Americans  
and is credited as being one of the forces that set them on the path 
toward revolution.
On a political mission in London, Benjamin Franklin writes Further Defense of 
Indian Corn for a British newspaper . While ostensibly about corn, the article 
is really a jibe at the British and their views of the Americans and the Scots. 
Hamilton’s father, James, deserts his family & leaves St. Croix. Hamilton 
never sees him again.
1767–176811–13  
years oldCharles Mason and Jeremiah Dixon ﬁnished their three year-long survey 
that would later establish the Mason-Dixon line, separating the North 
and South during the Civil War. 
Dr. Joseph Priestly, a theologian and chemist, (among the discoverers of 
oxygen and also a friend of Benjamin Franklin), creates the ﬁrst drinkable 
glass of manmade soda or carbonated water. 
Hamilton’s mother, Rachel, dies in 1767. Hamilton & his brother become 
wards of their cousin, Peter Lytton. Hamilton begins to clerk for the trading 
ﬁrm of Beekman & Cruger during this period (exact year uncertain).
1769 14 years oldDaniel Boone begins to explore the area that will become Kentucky. 
The ﬁrst modern recipe for macaroni and cheese is published in Elizabeth 
Raffald’s The Experienced French Housekeeper. 
Hamilton’s guardians, Peter Lytton and his father, James die. Hamilton goes 
to live with merchant Thomas Stevens & his family, while his brother is 
apprenticed to a tradesman. 16 | The Hamilton CookbookYearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1771 16 years oldIn 1769 about 3,000 people were killed after 200,000+ pounds of gun-
powder stored in a church basement ignited when lightning struck the 
church. The British Parliament convenes a committee to investigate and 
recommend protections against such lightning strikes on gunpowder 
storage sites. Committee members include Benjamin Franklin. 
The Connecticut General Assembly reimburses Ezekial Williams for ingredi-
ents for Election Day Cake (a variation of a classic English fruitcake), marking 
the ﬁrst time that the cake is recorded as being made to celebrate this hol-
iday, second only to Thanksgiving in importance in New England. 
While the head of the ﬁrm is on medical leave, Hamilton is left in charge  
of Beekman & Cruger. In April 1771, Hamilton publishes poetry in the local 
paper. 
1772 17 years oldColonists in Rhode Island set ﬁre to the British navy ship Gaspee, sent  
to enforce maritime laws and prevent smuggling. The burning is a signiﬁ-
cant event in the lead up to the American Revolution. 
Potatoes had been illegal to grow and consume in France since 1748, because 
they were believed to be poisonous. Some even claimed that they caused 
leprosy. Due to the e fforts of a French medical army o fficer who ate potatoes 
for many years as a prisoner of war during the Seven Years War, potatoes are 
ﬁnally made legal in France.  
Hamilton publishes his ﬁrst major piece of writing, an account of a hurri-
cane that struck St. Croix.
1773–177418–19  
years oldThe Boston Tea Party takes place in Boston Harbor (in 1773).
Johnny Appleseed (John Chapman) is born in Massachusetts.
Hamilton goes to the American colonies and enrolls in King’s College  
(later Columbia University.) On July 6, 1774, he speaks at a mass meeting, 
endorsing the Boston Tea Party, condemning British taxation policies in  
the colonies & endorsing a boycott of British goods.The Hamilton Cookbook | 17YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1775 20 years oldBattle of Lexington and Concord is fought on April 15. George Wash-
ington is named Commander-in-Chief in June and two days later, the 
Battle of Bunker Hill occurs. 
The Massachusetts Provincial Council sets the daily ration for soldiers as 
follows: 1 pound of bread, ½ pound of beef and ½ pound of pork; and if pork 
cannot be had, then 1 ¼ pounds of beef; and one day in seven they shall have 
1 ¼ pound of salt ﬁsh, instead of one day’s allowance of meat; 1 pint of milk, 
or if milk cannot be had, ½ cup of rice, 1 quart of good spruce or malt beer,  
½ cup of peas or beans, or other sauce equivalent, plus 6 ounces of good 
butter per week.
After Lexington and Concord, Hamilton joins other men in taking arms from 
British soldiers & forming an ad hoc military company in New York City. 
1776 21 years oldThe Declaration of Independence is signed on July 4th. 
There are 12 bakeries in New York.
After participating in several skirmishes, Hamilton is named an artillery 
captain in charge of a regiment he and a friend form. After the British shell 
New York, he is part of the force under Washington that retreats across  
New Jersey to Pennsylvania. 
1777 22 years oldThe Articles of Confederation are signed in November.
During the early winter at Valley Forge, food is scarce for the soldiers and 
much of their nourishment comes from “ﬁrecake,” ﬂour and water cooked 
over an open ﬁre.
Washington invites Hamilton to join his sta ff as an aide-de-camp. After the 
Articles of Confederation are signed and sent to states for ratiﬁcation, Ham-
ilton criticizes them for failing to give Congress taxing power.  18 | The Hamilton CookbookYearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1778 23 years oldCaptain James Cook lands on the Hawaiian Islands. 
In February, Congress orders that bakers be enlisted into the army consisting 
of a director to be paid $50 per month and 3 rations, 3 sub-directors at $40  
& 2 rations, 12 foremen at $30 & 1 ration & 64 bakers at $24 & 1 ration.
After falling gravely ill, Hamilton recovers, then rejoins Washington at Valley 
Forge. Hamilton participates in his ﬁrst duel, as a second for his good friend 
John Laurens. The duel results in injury, but no deaths. 
1779–178024–25  
years oldAfter betraying the colonies, Benedict Arnold joins the British. The 
deadliest Atlantic hurricane on record kills 20,000-30,000 people in the 
Carribbean. Among those who die from the hurricane are 4,000 French 
soldiers headed for the U.S. when their 40 ships capsize o ff Martinique. 
The winter of 1780 is so harsh in Morristown and the soldiers so desperate 
that one private reports seeing a soldier roast and eat shoes, and reports 
hearing that some of the o fficers killed aand ate a dog.
Elizabeth Schuyler arrives at Morristown in February. Before the end of 
March, she and Hamilton decide to wed. While working on military matters 
during the day, Hamilton writes a 7,000-word letter to a member of the 
Continental Congress from New York containing a critique of the Articles 
of Confederation and visionary plans for the powers of the executive and 
legislative branches of the federal government.
1781 26 years oldThe Continental Congress adopts the Articles of Confederation. The 
Revolutionary War ends in October, with Cornwallis’ surrender to 
Washington at Yorktown. 
Wheat is selling for 7–8 shillings ($2.34 to $2.68) per bushel in New England; 
oats for 2 shillings 8 pence (89 cents); rye for 4–5 shillings ($1.34 to $1.67) 
and Indian corn for 4 shillings ($1.34) per bushel.
Hamilton leaves Washington’s sta ff after a tense confrontation. He continues 
to serve in the army as commander of a NY Light Infantry Battalion. The Hamilton Cookbook | 19YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1782 27 years oldThe Bank of North America, the ﬁrst commercial bank in the U.S. is 
federally chartered in Philadelphia.
Antoine Beauvilliers opens what is purported to be the ﬁrst “real” restaurant 
in Paris. He becomes a famous restauranteur and author of an important 
French cookbook, l’ Art du Cuisinier  translated into English under the title  
The Art of French Cookery .
The Hamiltons’ ﬁrst child, Philip, is born and the family moves in with her 
parents for 2 years. Hamilton does accelerated study for the bar and opens 
up a law practice in Albany, as does Aaron Burr at about the same time. He 
becomes the receiver of continental taxes for New York and soon after goes 
to Philadelphia to participate in the Confederation Congress. 
1783 28 years oldThe Revolutionary War ﬁghting ends and General Washington orders the 
Continental Army disbanded. Twenty-seven year old Mozart’s symphony 
#36 premieres in Linz, Austria.
Frederic Tudor, “the Ice King,” is born. He pioneered the export of block ice, 
cut from frozen New England pond in the winter and shipped to the Carib-
bean and Europe, where it is stored in insulated warehouses. 
Elizabeth’s sister Angelica Schuyler Church, her husband John and their 
children leave for Europe. John Church, names Hamilton as the former’s 
business agent in the U.S., which consumes much of Hamilton’s time. The 
Hamiltons move to a home on Wall St. in lower Manhattan.
1784 29 years oldThe U.S. Congress of the Confederation ratiﬁes the Treaty of Paris, 
officially ending the Revolutionary War. 
Twenty-nine year old Oliver Evan’s automatic ﬂour mill  goes into operation 
near Philadelphia. The mill moves grain automatically through a series o f ﬁve 
machines on a production line and delivers ﬂour at th e end, packed in barrels.
Hamilton founds the Bank of New York while practicing law in New York 
City. The Hamiltons’ second child, Angelica, is born in September. 20 | The Hamilton CookbookYearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1785 30 years oldSamuel Ellis advertises to sell Oyster (Ellis) Island, but gets no takers. 
Napoleon Bonaparte graduates from the military academy in Paris. 
A British inventor patents the beer-pump handle.
Hamilton and a small group found the anti-slavery group, The New York 
Society for Promoting the Manumission of Slaves. 
1786 31 years oldThe U.S. Congress adopts the silver dollar and the decimal system of 
currency. 
Commercially made ice cream is ﬁrst advertised . 
Hamilton is elected to the New York legislature and then to the Annapolis 
convention. At the convention, the delegates issue a report Hamilton writes 
calling on the country to establish a strong federal government. The Hamil-
tons’ third child, Alexander, is born in May. 
1787–178832–33  
years oldThe U.S. Constitution is drafted and ratiﬁed by enough states that it 
becomes e ffective. New York City becomes the ﬁrst capital of the U.S.
Hannah Glasse’s The Art of Cookery Made Plain & Easy  is published. 
Hamilton is a delegate to the Constitutional Convention. He also creates, 
supervises, and writes 55 of the 85 essays (John Jay and James Madison 
write the remainder) that constitute The Federalist Papers . The essays, 
urging ratiﬁcation of the Constitution, are now considered perhaps the 
foremost source for understanding the original intent of the Constitution’s 
drafters. The Hamiltons’ fourth child, James Alexander, is born in  
April, 1788.The Hamilton Cookbook | 21YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1789 34 years oldGeorge Washington is sworn in as the ﬁrst U.S. President in April and the 
French Revolution begins with the storming of the Bastille on July 14th 
(now celebrated as Bastille Day)
It is widely reported that the Hamiltons served George Washington ice 
cream at a dinner on June 13, which appears to have been Washington’s 
introduction to the sweet confection. 
A week after creating the Treasury Department, Washington appoints 
Hamilton as Secretary of the Treasury. 
1790 35 years oldGeorge Washington delivers the ﬁrst State of the Union Address, the 
Supreme Court convenes for the ﬁrst time (in New York), the U.S. 
Congress moves from New York City to Philadelphia and passes the 
Assumption Bill (promoted by Hamilton) to make the federal govern-
ment responsible for state debts. 
The ﬁrst US patent is granted. It is for a process that produced, among other 
things, pearlash, used in baking to produce quick rise breads. (Baking powder 
does not become available until the mid-1800s.) 
Hamilton submits his “First Report on the Public Credit, ” arguing for federal 
assumption of state debts. Je fferson hosts a dinner for Madison and Ham-
ilton at which the three men hammer out a compromise that implements 
Hamilton’s plan for federal assumption, and Hamilton agrees to encourage 
his fellow northerners to accept the creation of the capital in the South, 
along the Potomac River.22 | The Hamilton CookbookYearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1791–179236–37  
years oldIn December 1791, the U.S. adopts the Bill of Rights, the ﬁrst 10 amend-
ments to the Constitution. In 1792, Washington is elected to his second 
term as President and Congress establishes the U.S Mint. In France, the 
Revolution continues; the revolutionary forces capture Louis XVI and his 
family trying to escape. Mozart’s The Magic Flute premieres in Vienna.
Patents are issued in the US for the manufacture of gelatin and for a machine 
that threshes corn and grain. ( Threshing separates the grain from seed.)
Hamilton becomes enmeshed in an a ffair with Maria Reynolds and the 
subsequent extortion plot. The Hamiltons’ ﬁfth child, John Church, is born in 
the midst of the a ffair. In his professional life, Hamilton is the guiding force 
behind the creation of the Bank of the U.S.
1793 38 years oldLouis XVI is guillotined in France during the French Revolution. The U.S. 
passes the ﬁrst fugitive slave law requiring return of escaping slaves. 
Robert Haeterick (or Heterick) receives the ﬁrst U.S. patent for a stove made 
of cast iron. France introduces the ﬁrst metric weight, the kilogram.
Hamilton’s critics accuse him of malfeasance through a series of resolutions 
proposed in Congress. He responds with a 20,000-word report and the 
resolutions do not pass. In August, a yellow fever epidemic breaks out in 
Philadelphia, where the Hamiltons live. Both Hamilton and his wife are 
stricken. They recover with the help of a childhood friend of Hamilton’s, 
physician Edward Stevens.The Hamilton Cookbook | 23YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1794 39 years oldHaiti, under the leadership of Toussaint L’Ouverture, revolts against 
France (during the French Revolution).
Sylvester Graham, the inventor of the graham cracker, is born. 
After a tax he proposed in 1791 to help pay federal debts led to widespread 
anger in Pennsylvania, Hamilton leads a military force to put down the  
protest. At roughly the same time, the Hamiltons’ ﬁfth child, 2-year-old  
John Church Hamilton, becomes gravely ill while Elizabeth is pregnant.  
He recovers but she miscarries. 
1795 40 years oldFire destroys one-third of Copenhagen, Denmark, causing 18,000  
casualties. The British capture Capetown, South Africa, from the Dutch 
and La Marseillaise  becomes the French national anthem.
The British navy adopts limes (and lemons, which more expensive and di ffi-
cult to obtain) as the standard food to be issued to sailors for prevention of 
scurvy. (Scurvy is a disease caused by lack of vitamin C, a nutrient found in 
citrus.) The term “limey” for a British sailor comes from this practice. 
Hamilton leaves his post as Secretary of the Treasury and moves back to 
New York from Philadelphia to resume private law practice. 
1796 41 years oldThe ﬁrst Independence Day celebration is held in the U.S. and the federal 
government issues the ﬁrst U.S. passport. 
American Cookery by Amelia Simmons, the ﬁrst cookbook written by an 
American, is published in Hartford, Connecticut. 
Hamilton tries, but fails to get his preferred candidate (Charles Pinckney of 
South Carolina) elected President. Like Hamilton, the successful candidate, 
John Adams, is a Federalist, but the men had an active dislke for each other. 
Hamilton writes Washington’s Farewell Address. 24 | The Hamilton CookbookYearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1797 42 years oldAlbany replaces New York City as the capital of New York state.
H.L. Pernod becomes the ﬁrst person to commercially manufacture absinthe.
Angelica Church and her family move back to New York and live near the 
Hamiltons. The Hamiltons’ sixth child, William Stephen, is born in August. 
The Reynolds a ffair again becomes fodder for the public humiliation of 
Hamilton and his family. In his own defense, Hamilton writes a 95-page 
booklet, with 37 pages of personal confession. Shortly after Hamilton’s 
defense is published, his oldest child, Philip, becomes gravely ill with a high 
fever. Hamilton nurses him back to health. 
1798–179943–44  
years oldNew York state abolishes slavery and the metric system is established in 
France. George Washington dies in December 1799.
The term “cocktail” is ﬁrst used, in a British newspaper, as part of a recipe for 
a drink served at a London pub. 
Washington again becomes army Commander-in-Chief, this time with 
Hamilton as second in command. As de facto army head, Hamilton 
counters the Fries Rebellion with overwhelming force; then President 
Adams pardons rebellion leaders. Hamilton collaborates with Aaron Burr 
on a project to create a private water company. However, the episode 
ends badly with a duel between Burr and Hamilton’s brother-in-law, John 
Church. Neither man was hurt. Hamilton’s father, James, dies on St. Vincent. 
Although they hadn’t seen each other since James deserted the family, 
Hamilton sent his father regular support payments. Less than six months 
after his father’s death, the Hamiltons’ seventh child, Elizabeth, is born and 
a few weeks later, Washington dies. The Hamilton Cookbook | 25YearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1800 45 years oldWashington, D.C., becomes the U.S. Capitol and John Adams moves into 
the White House. Thomas Jefferson is elected as the third President of 
the U.S.
The ﬁrst soup kitchens are opened in London.
Hamilton drafts a bill to create a military academy, ends his own military 
service, and acts as co-counsel in a notable murder case with Burr. Increas-
ingly disenchanted with Adams’ presidency, he writes a 54-page critique 
that is not well received, even by his own allies. After 36 rounds of voting, 
Jefferson wins the presidency over Aaron Burr, largely due to Hamilton’s 
intervention on Je fferson’s behalf. Hamilton retreats from politics and begins 
building The Grange in northern Manhattan. 
1801 46 years oldThomas Jefferson is the ﬁrst U.S. President to be inaugurated in Wash-
ington, D.C.
Gail Borden, the inventor of the process of making condensed milk and the 
founder of the company that later become Borden Co., is born. Charles Cad-
bury, founder of the Cadbury Chocolate Company, is born. 
The Hamiltons’ oldest child, Philip, dies in a duel at age 19, defending his 
father’s honor. Hamilton is devastated and the death drives his oldest 
daughter, Angelica, insane.
1802 47 years oldThe French Revolution ends.
Osip Krichevsky, a Russian physician, invents the ﬁrst modern production 
process for creating dried milk. 
The Hamiltons’ eighth child, Philip (called “Little Phil”), is born. 26 | The Hamilton CookbookYearHamilton’s 
AgeEvent
1803 48 years oldThe Louisiana Purchase is ratiﬁed by the U.S. Senate.
The apple parer is patented.
Elizabeth’s mother, Catharine Schuyler, dies. 
1804 49 years oldNapolen Bonaparte is proclaimed Emperor of France and Thomas 
Jefferson is re-elected as President of the U.S.
The Japanese company Mizkan is founded. Among the brands it later 
purchases are the American companies that make Ragu and Bertolli  
pasta sauces.
Aaron Burr challenges Hamilton to a duel and shoots Hamilton, who dies 
the next day.Chapter 2
Hamilton’s W orld:
18TH Century W est 
Indies and Colonial/
Early Federal AmericaHamilton’s World: 18th Century West Indies and Colonial/Early Federal Amer ica | 29The W est Indies  
of Hamilton’s Youth
Looking out to the ocean from the West Indies 
islands where Hamilton grew up was a beautiful 
view. However, the islands themselves were not 
so hospitable for Hamilton or many of the other 
inhabitants. 
Born on the island of Nevis into a family that 
was by no means rich, Hamilton moved to Chris-
tiansted, the capital of the Danish West Indies on 
the island of St. Croix, when he was ten years old. 
He lived on that 82-square mile island until he left 
for the American colonies in 1773 at the age of 
eighteen. Although Denmark owned and governed 
St. Croix at that time, its white population was a 
heterogeneous mix of European settlers, including 
French, British, Irish, and Scots as well as Danes. 
Today, the island’s economy depends on 
tourism, but in Hamilton’s time, its fortunes were 
based on its major plantation crop, sugar, and sug-
ar’s byproducts rum and molasses. The plantations 
required slave labor and slaves far outnumbered 
the white inhabitants of St. Croix. By one count, at 
the end of the 1700s, the population of about 23,000 
people consisted of 20,000 slaves (all African or of 
African descent), 1,000 “freed” persons of African 
descent, and 2,000 whites.7
Christiansted, a young city when Hamilton 
lived there, served as the port through which the 
products from the island’s plantations were loaded on ships and sent to the American colonies and 
Europe. When Hamilton clerked at a trading house 
(basically an import-export business in today’s 
terms), he could see how the bustling port operated 
and he spent time at the docks as well as in the 
company’s nearby warehouse.
Rachel Hamilton’s grocery store was located 
half a block from the city’s Sunday Market. Slaves 
from the plantations could go to the market, sell 
their wares, and buy food and other necessities 
to take back to the plantation. Items sold at the 
market included hens, guinea fowl, ducks, pigs, 
goats, tubers, beans, cassava bread, and local 
varieties of fruits and vegetables such as mamee, 
papaya, guava, guavaberry, okra, bacuba, tannia, 
and bananas.8 While it may seem odd that slaves 
could leave a plantation and be expected to return, 
keep in mind that St. Croix is a small island. It was 
tough to survive in the wild and not easy to disap-
pear into the relatively small towns and capital city. 
Escaping o ff the island was also di fficult.
There was also a slave market in Christiansted. 
Although the harshest conditions were undoubtedly 
on the plantations rather than in the city, Hamilton 
certainly saw slaves being bought and sold. He expe-
rienced slave ownership in his own family too. His 
mother owned two young slaves at the time of her 
death and willed them to Alexander and his brother 
James. The boys, however, did not inherit them, as 
the authorities ruled that their Lavien half-brother 
was entitled to claim their mother’s entire estate.930 | The Hamilton CookbookColonial/Early Federal America 
from Hamilton’s Perspective 
Once he left St. Croix, Hamilton lived virtually all 
of his adult life in New York and Pennsylvania, with 
short stays in New Jersey when he first arrived in 
the colonies and during the Revolutionary War. His 
resided principally in New York City and in Phila-
delphia while that city functioned as the temporary 
capital of the United States during his time as 
Secretary of the Treasury. He also spent time at his 
in-laws’ mansion in Albany, New York. To the extent 
that he traveled, it was mostly between those loca-
tions and in the course of the Revolutionary War, 
when he got as far south as Yorktown, Virginia. 
In 1775, just a few years after Hamilton arrived 
from St. Croix, the population of the 13 colonies was 
about 2.5 million.10 That is just about the current 
population of the city of Chicago. The population 
of New York state was about 200,000 and New York 
City had approximately 22,000 inhabitants. Albany, 
where Hamilton’s in-laws, the Schuylers, lived, had 
4,000 inhabitants, about 10 percent of whom were 
slaves. Chernow describes it as a “rough hewn” 
town, still heavily in fluenced by the Dutch language, 
traditions, and culture of its founders.11 
By 1790, just after George Washington was 
elected the nation’s first president and appointed 
Hamilton as the Secretary of the Treasury, the pop-
ulation of the United States had mushroomed. The 
country’s total population was just under 4 million people12 and New York state had over 340,000 inhab-
itants. At that time, there were just two cities with 
populations over 25,000: Philadelphia, with a popu-
lation over 42,000, and New York City, with just over 
33,000 inhabitants. Boston was a distant third with 
barely 18,000 inhabitants.13 The fourth-largest city 
was Charleston, South Carolina. Less than 4 per-
cent of the U.S. population lived in an urban area, 
defined as a town of at least 8,000 people. Compare 
those figures to the population in the 2010 national 
census. In 2010, the U.S. population was over 308 
million, of whom 80 percent lived in an urban 
area.14 The largest cities in 2010 were New York (over 
8.1 million), Los Angeles (almost 3.8 million), and 
Chicago (almost 2.7 million). Boston was ranked 21st 
by population and Charleston, South Carolina, with 
fewer than 130,000 people, did not make it into the 
top 200 largest U.S. cities.15
New York City
New York City was much smaller geographically 
than it is today. The city began at the docks on the 
southern tip of Manhattan and basically ended 
just a bit farther north near Canal Street, in what 
is now known as Chinatown. It was a “winding 
maze of narrow streets, low buildings and bus-
tling wharves. ”16 The other boroughs and the rest 
of Manhattan were clusters of villages and farms 
in a rural setting. It was not until 1793 that the 
city fathers required buildings to be sequentially Hamilton’s World: 18th Century West Indies and Colonial/Early Federal Amer ica | 31
Chart of the Atlantic Ocean, with settlements in No. America, West Indies, an d Cost of Africa. From A General Topography of 
North America and the West Indies.  Plate III, Thomas Jeffrys, 1768. [sic]Geography and Map Division, Library of Congress, Washington, DC32 | The Hamilton Cookbooknumbered along a street; those numbered streets 
that now provide a grid pattern in Manhattan did 
not exist until almost a decade after Hamilton’s 
death.17 When Hamilton finished building The 
Grange, several miles north of Canal Street, that 
area was countryside where he could enjoy gardens 
and clean air. 
Until 1762, New York had colonial America’s 
second largest slave market, located at the foot 
of Wall Street.18 While the proportion of slaves in 
New York City did not equal that in Southern cities, 
during colonial times as much as 20 percent of New 
York City’s population were slaves and among its 
households, 41 percent had slaves. By contrast, the 
percentage of slave-holding households in Philadel-
phia was 6 percent and in Boston, 2 percent.19
New York was founded by the Dutch as a 
trading city and business was its lifeblood. Its cos-
mopolitan character and diverse population made 
New York City a welcoming environment for an 
enterprising and social young man like Hamilton. 
The theater scene had begun to flourish, and by 
the mid-1770s there were seven theaters in the city. 
Many found New York an exciting place filled with 
lovely river vistas and beautiful homes. 
As to what New Yorkers appeared like to visi-
tors, perhaps they were not so di fferent then from 
the stereotype of a 21st-century New Yorker. When 
John Adams visited on his way to the Continental 
Congress in Philadelphia he made this observation: “They talk very loud, very fast, and altogether. If 
they ask you a question, before you can utter three 
words of your answer, they will break out upon you 
again, and talk away. ”20
During the Revolutionary War, the British occu-
pied the city. They arrived shortly after the signing 
of the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, 
and the last British troops did not leave until late 
1783.21 Hamilton was part of the colonial army 
that retreated from New York City. During the War, 
the British used the city as a detention center for 
captured Patriots, detaining them on ships and in a 
variety of public and private buildings. The British 
even kept some of their prisoners in churches and 
the classrooms of King’s College, where Hamilton 
had been studying until the war broke out. Alto-
gether the British detained about 30,000 prisoners 
in New York City at one point or another during 
the Revolutionary War, close to the entire civilian 
population at that time. The day the last British 
soldier left New York, November 25, 1783, became a 
holiday called Evacuation Day. Although no longer 
celebrated, it was a popular holiday in New York 
for more than a century after the end of the Revo-
lutionary War.22 Because Hamilton was both a New 
Yorker and a veteran with first-hand knowledge of 
the occupation and its devastation, it is likely that 
the holiday was meaningful for him. History records 
that he attended a special dinner to mark the occa-
sion at least once.Chapter 3
Cooking In 
Hamilton’s TimeCooking In  Hamilton’s Time | 35The Kitchen, Cooking Equipment, 
and Furniture
Kitchens were neither comfortable nor easy 
places in which to cook during Hamilton’s time. At 
The Grange, built in 1802, the kitchen was in the 
basement.23 In large homes built in the decades 
before, such as the home Elizabeth Schuyler grew 
up in near Albany, New York, kitchens were typi-
cally “out buildings, ” located on the property but 
far enough away to keep the smells and hustle and 
bustle away from the main house.24 The practice 
of putting kitchens in outbuildings prevailed even 
in cities such as Philadelphia, if the home and 
its grounds were large enough to accommodate 
separate structures.25 With no air conditioning and 
with a constant fire to cook food, the kitchen could 
be both hot and buggy in the summer. Without 
modern ventilation, the area near the hearth would 
be warm or even hot in the winter, but the rest of 
the room was likely to be drafty and cold. 
Most cooking took place in or over the open 
hearth (the floor) of a fireplace. Hearths were 
dangerous, often smoky, and generally ine fficient. 
However, a skilled and experienced cook could use 
the hearth to cook using a variety of methods:
• Frying (using flame heat underneath with a 
pan between the flame and the item being 
cooked; frying requires using fat, i.e. butter, 
oil, or lard) • Stewing (cooking meat, poultry and/or 
vegetables in liquid and serving them in 
the gravy that results from the cooking) 
• Poaching (submerging meat, poultry, or 
fish in barely simmering liquid) 
• Boiling (cooking in liquid that is brought 
to, and kept at, its boiling point)
• Broiling (cooking using direct flame on 
top) or grilling (cooking using direct  
flame from below)
• Roasting (cooking with radiant or  
indirect heat) 
• Baking26 
Baking was done in the hearth with a Dutch 
oven, which is a deep, heavy pot with a lid in which 
a cook placed dough. Those who could a fford it had 
a beehive-shaped brick oven built into the fireplace 
or placed outside. Such ovens were similar to those 
now used in brick oven pizza restaurants. If a family 
could not a fford an oven, in many areas a cook 
could bring dough to a local baker who would rent 
space in his large oven. 
The hearth had to be wide and deep enough 
to accommodate several di fferent types of cooking 
at once. In some cases, the fireplace might be eight 
or ten feet wide.27 In most places in the American 
colonies and later the states, wood was plentiful so 
it was a major source of the fuel needed to keep a 
fire going for cooking. In order to keep the wood o ff 36 | The Hamilton Cookbooka hearth floor to let air circulate, a hearth would be 
equipped with andirons, also called firedogs. 
It took skill, experience, and strength to keep 
the fire (or more precisely, several small fires in the 
same hearth) at the proper level of heat for each 
type of cooking and to move and remove heavy pots 
and pans. Those who tended the fire used tongs 
to move burning wood and peels (long-handled 
shovels with flat surfaces) to move hot coals or 
charcoal. They removed embers from the fire using 
a fire pan. 
It was common to keep the fires going all day, 
then bury them in ash during the night so they 
would not die out, reviving them in the morning. 
In order to change a food’s cooking temperature, a 
cook would either move the food closer to, or far-
ther from, the fire or change the intensity of the fire. 
Either way, it was an imprecise way to cook.
For those who were able to a fford them (espe-
cially in urban areas), stew stoves, also known as 
potagers, became more common during Hamilton’s 
lifetime. Built like benches, stew stoves had open-
ings fitted with an iron grate. Below the grate, a 
firebox held a small fire burning coal or charcoal. 
Just before the end of the eighteenth century 
(1796), a loyalist named Benjamin Thompson 
designed a shallower fireplace that burned less 
wood but gave o ff more heat due to its redesigned 
chimney. It was called a Rumford fireplace, after 
the birthplace of Thompson’s wife. Although the 
new design was not limited to kitchens (Je fferson installed eight Rumford fireplaces throughout Mon-
ticello in renovations he began in 1796)28, for this 
book’s purposes the main bene fit of the Rumford 
fireplace was that it was an advancement in how 
kitchen hearths were built and operated. When 
building his new home, The Grange, Hamilton 
included a Rumford-type fireplace in the kitchen.29
In order to accommodate all of the necessary 
pots, pans, and kettles, hearths had long iron bars 
up one side and over the top. In the early part of the 
18th century, pots hung over the hearth on a pole 
with an extension and a hook called a trammel. By 
the time Hamilton was born, the poles had evolved 
into cranes that could swing into the front or back 
of the hearth, so the cook did not have to step far 
into the hearth to get to the pot. The trammel (with 
Hearth with cooking utensils
Prints & Photographs Online Catalog, Prints & Photographs Division, 
Library of Congress, Washington, DC Cooking In  Hamilton’s Time | 37chains) could raise and lower pots and kettles, 
and move them from the back to the front of the 
hearth.30 
Pots had bulging sides and a cover while kettles 
had sloped sides with no cover. The largest kettles, 
called cauldrons, could be so valuable that they 
would be passed down in wills when the owner of 
the house died. 
For those dishes that needed to be even closer 
to the fire, cooks used 3-legged pans. Small ones 
with rounded bottoms were called posnets or 
pipkins, while the larger versions with flat bottoms 
were called spiders or spyders.31 
Roasting could be done one of four ways: 
• with a spit that sat between low andirons 
with a pan for the drippings 
• by a spit set inside a tin or copper drum  
cut in half 
• by a cord suspended from a hook on  
the hearth
• in a reflector oven or tin kitchen, a tin or 
copper drum cut in half with a spit inside 
As mentioned, major baking was generally 
done once a week in Dutch ovens in a beehive oven, 
or at a nearby baker’s oven. 
Making toast required holding the bread close 
to the fire for a short time. A common piece of 
equipment for toasting was a wrought iron contrap-
tion mounted on feet with a set of swiveling “claws” 
that held slices of bread. Cooking utensils used to stir, ladle, or flip food 
cooking on the hearth had to be long-handled so 
that they could be used to reach the food no matter 
where it was located in the hearth. 
Furniture in a kitchen tended to do double 
duty. For example, a chest used for storage would 
also be used on top as a work surface. The same was 
true for a hutch. To save space and also for deco-
ration, it was common to hang items that could 
include brass and copper utensils and plates. Dr. 
Alexander Hamilton (no relation), a Scottish-born 
physician and traveler throughout the mid-Atlantic 
colonies in the mid-1700s, wrote about the Dutch 
kitchens he saw near Albany, the area where Ham-
ilton’s in-laws, the Schuylers, lived. Dr. Hamilton 
noted the cleanliness of the kitchens and that “they 
hang earthen or delft plates and dishes all-round 
the walls in manner of picture, having a hole drilled 
thro (sic) the edge of the plate or dish and a loop of 
ribbon put into it to hang it by. ”32
Of course, without electricity, a kitchen in a 
basement or after the sun went down would be a 
dreary place in which to prepare food. Candles may 
be romantic, but they are not ideal for providing 
good light for cooking or baking. Bill Bryson notes 
in his book At Home: A Short History of Private Life,  
“[A] good candle provides barely a hundredth of the 
illumination of a single 100-watt light bulb. Open 
your refrigerator door and you summon forth more 
light than the total amount enjoyed by most house-
holds in the 18th century. ”3338 | The Hamilton CookbookFood Storage
In Hamilton’s time, if one did not have access to ice 
from a frozen pond, lake, or river, and space enough 
to store it, the options for cool storage were limited. 
Thomas Jefferson had a separate ice house at Monti-
cello, where he stored chunks of the frozen Rivanna 
River from winter through to the following October, 
enabling his household sta ff to preserve meat and 
butter and even to make ice cream.34 That was not 
an option for the Hamiltons who lived in crowded 
lower Manhattan and in urban Philadelphia. While 
the Hamiltons may have had ice delivered for 
special occasions or special items, they probably 
bought food more frequently, stored most fresh food 
only for short periods, and relied on a variety of 
techniques to preserve foods. 
Modern cooks can buy food in bulk, on their 
own schedule, and refrigerate or freeze it until it’s 
used days, weeks, or even months later. In Ham-
ilton’s day, city dwellers shopped daily or close to 
it. And the food they purchased had to come from 
close by, as there were no refrigerated trucks to 
transport perishable foods long distances. The 
typical contemporary description of how long meat, 
a staple of the diet in Hamilton’s time, lasted is that 
it had to be eaten or preserved within twenty-four 
hours of the animal being butchered. The two types of common storage were cool 
storage for fruits, vegetables, and even eggs, and 
dry storage for grains and other items. Cool storage, 
sometimes called a “root cellar, ” might be below-
ground and would be dark and cool enough to store 
onions, potatoes, turnips, and other root vegetables, 
as well as fruits such as apples. The dry storage 
location would keep flours, beans, and similar items 
from rotting. 
In Hamilton’s time, cooks used a number of 
techniques besides cool storage to preserve foods 
without refrigeration. They “potted” meat, mixing 
it with other ingredients and storing it in earthen 
jars. The resulting mincemeat was often used in 
pies. Meats could also be dried, salted (using a light 
coating of salt to preserve meat was called “corning” 
as in corned beef), or smoked. Vegetables were typ-
ically preserved by pickling them in a vinegar-based 
liquid, but cucumbers and cabbage could also be 
preserved through fermentation, making them into 
sour pickles and sauerkraut. Beans and grains were 
dried. Fruits were dried, or preserved in sugar syrup 
(jams or jellies), or preserved in alcohol, such as 
cherries in brandy.Cooking In  Hamilton’s Time | 39
 Cooking In  Hamilton’s Time 
 |39In homes of the well-to-do, a still-familiar situation gener-
ally prevailed: men did not cook and had little to do with 
the housekeeping chores relating to cooking and food. Th e 
“lady of the house” would supervise, which meant that 
she had to know how to do the various activities involved 
in preparing food, serving, entertaining, and maintaining 
a kitchen. However, women such as Elizabeth Hamilton 
had servants or slaves who did the actual cooking, serving, 
cleaning, and related tasks. 
It took more than one person to do all of the cooking 
for a large family such as the Hamiltons, especially because 
Alexander and Elizabeth liked to entertain. Everything had 
to be made by hand, and tasks related to marketing and 
preparing the food had to be done almost daily. Imagine 
preparing large multicourse dinners without a refrigerator, 
freezer, mixer, or food processor. Th en imagine cooking all 
the dishes for daily meals on an open hearth, rather than 
on easily controlled stovetop burners and in an oven with 
temperature settings. 
For formal dinner parties with numerous guests, the 
hosts had to have butlers and maids to serve the food 
and remove and wash the numerous dishes. Although the 
Hamiltons did not have household slaves late in their life 
together (Angelica Church even wrote to her sister in 1804 
bemoaning the fact that Elizabeth did not have slaves to 
help her prepare for a large party the Hamiltons planned to 
give), they may have had household slaves earlier in their 
marriage and certainly had servants during their entire 
marriage. 
Th e number of people who cooked and served meals 
was dependent, of course, on the employing family’s means 
and the size of the group that needed to be fed. When both the Washingtons and the Hamiltons lived in Philadelphia, 
George and Martha Washington had numerous domestic 
servants for their household entourage, which included 
extended family and friends.35 Th eir housekeeper and a 
steward oversaw others, including a cook, maids, and a 
butler, as well as others who could help in the kitchen and 
serving chores on an “as needed” basis.36 Another large and 
wealthy Philadelphia family of the period, the Chews (who 
were friends of the Washingtons and others in the Ham-
iltons’ social circle), typically had a regular sta ff  of around 
seventeen, including “free” servants, indentured servants, 
and slaves, plus two washerwomen, a seamstress, and others 
hired on an occasional basis. Th e cook had help from nine 
people on the regular sta ff , ﬁ  ve women and four men (a 
combination of slaves and white servants) who performed 
kitchen and serving chores as well as other duties.37 While 
the Hamilton household was reasonably large, they were 
not as wealthy as many of those with whom they socialized. 
Still, they certainly had at least a few servants who would 
have cooked and served their food. 
Cooks who were “free” servants (not indentured ser-
vants or slaves) were typically paid about $40 to $55 a year 
in the late eighteenth century in Philadelphia, and more 
if they could create fancy confections; less skilled kitchen 
workers and maids earned half that. By the end of the 
eighteenth century, domestic servants in New York earned 
about $8 a month, or $96 a year.38 Cooks and those who 
helped them (along with other domestic servants) typically 
began work by candlelight in the early morning, perhaps 
as early as 5 a.m. Th ey would work until late in the evening, 
after supper had been served, everything cleaned up, and 
preparations made for the next day’s meals.39 Who Cooked? 40 | The Hamilton CookbookRisks in the Kitchen
In the eighteenth century, there was no system to 
track workplace injuries and none of the resources 
we have available today to understand the relative 
risks of various activities. While we may not be able 
to determine whether there were more cooking 
injuries in Hamilton’s time or whether they were 
more severe than they are today, we can imagine 
how cooking injuries might have occurred. Working 
with an open fire certainly carries risk and a cook or 
maid had to be careful to keep her long skirts away 
from the embers and flames when moving pots and 
pans around the hearth. Also, pots and pans were 
made of heavy cast iron and similar materials and 
tended to be large to accommodate portions for 
big families and gatherings. One can imagine the 
strained backs and scalding injuries that must have 
occurred from moving those heavy pieces around. 
Ingredients and Popular Dishes
Without refrigeration and easy methods to trans-
port fresh food ingredients, even wealthy people ate 
what was locally available. The “buy local” move-
ment was not a matter of choice; it was a necessity 
in Hamilton’s time. Fresh fish are highly perishable, 
so those preparing fish dishes in Hamilton’s time 
had to use whatever was most plentiful in nearby 
waters. A New Englander might use cod, common 
in the Atlantic waters o ff those northern states,40 
while a Mid-Atlantic cook might utilize flounder,41 and a Southerner might gravitate to a recipe for 
catfish.42 Those who lived inland (e.g., Albany, where 
Hamilton’s in-laws lived and where he spent a good 
deal of time) would have used fish caught in nearby 
lakes and rivers, rather than saltwater fish from the 
ocean far away from their home.
Several ingredients that we consider luxuries 
today were more plentiful and less expensive in 
Hamilton’s time. For example, lobsters were abun-
dant and sometimes grew to be five to six feet in 
the waters around New York in that time period. 
Oysters were so plentiful that they were commonly 
sold as street food. Some of those not sold locally 
were pickled and sent to the West Indies. Like 
lobsters, oysters grew large in that era. One person 
described a single oyster as enough for several 
mouthfuls. “Oyster cellars” or saloons sold “all you 
can eat” oysters for six cents. “ Although it was said 
that if a patron ate too many, the waiter would slip 
him a bad one. ”43 
Certain items were used as ingredients that we 
do not use today in American cuisine. Most of the 
ones that would strike a modern person as most 
bizarre involve animals and animal parts. Popular 
recipes of the time featured turtles (roasted or in 
soup), eel, pigeons, calves’ heads, and beef tongue. 
We cannot imagine making a blood pudding with 
half a pint of lamb, pig, or goose blood or a minced 
pie made with the feet or tongues of beef cattle. Cooking In  Hamilton’s Time | 41Even some ingredients that we still use fre-
quently today vary from the versions common 
during Hamilton’s time. Their meat was tougher 
and their butter tended to be saltier than ours. 
Their sugar was hard, sold in loaves or cones from 
which a cook had to pound or chip o ff the amount 
required. Eggs were smaller in Hamilton’s time and, 
of course, they were not graded for size. That meant 
recipes speci fied more eggs than we would typically 
use today (most American recipes call for “large” 
eggs) and that the number of eggs was less precise 
than it would be in a modern recipe that uses uni-
formly sized eggs. Flour used in Hamilton’s time was 
heavier than ours, so following a recipe for baked 
goods from that time means using more flour to get 
the same result.44 Raisins were larger in those days 
and they contained seeds. Recipes that called for 
them often instructed the cook to remove the seeds 
or “stone” and to chop the fruit.45
While the term ketchup (catsup or catchup) 
was used in Hamilton’s time, it didn’t refer to the 
slightly spicy-sweet tomato condiment that we 
call by that name today. Instead, it was a term for 
a method of creating a vinegar-based condiment 
from various ingredients such as walnuts and 
mushrooms. In her eighteenth century classic book, 
/T_he Experienced English Housekeeper , Elizabeth Raf-
fald provides a recipe for “a Catchup to keep Seven 
Years. ” The ingredients include “two quarts of the 
oldest strong beer you can get, ” a quart of red wine, three quarters of a pound of anchovies, shallots, 
and spices.46
Ingredients and foods still common today were 
not always used or treated in the same way. Spices 
were often used in greater quantities in Hamilton’s 
time than we would use them. Their aromas could 
hide a disagreeable odor if food was going bad, and 
once people got used to the heavy concentrations 
of spices, that became the norm. Today, with better 
food storage methods, we do not eat food that is 
“off” and so do not use spices for that purpose. 
Also, we tend to use spices with a lighter touch to 
enhance rather than hide flavors. During Hamilton’s 
time, salt was a common preservative, so cooks and 
diners would sprinkle vinegar on foods to coun-
teract any lingering salty taste.47 Today, we rarely 
use salt as a preservative and we are conscious of 
the need to lower our sodium consumption. There-
fore, if we use vinegar as a condiment, it is typically 
for its own taste. Beer or ale was a popular drink in 
Hamilton’s day and remains so today. But in that 
period, beer was a common breakfast drink, while 
today we save it for later in the day or evening. 
Finally, there are foods we eat today that 
people in Hamilton’s time avoided. They believed 
that tomatoes and potatoes were poisonous. In 
the case of potatoes, the belief had no basis in 
fact. The tomato situation was more complicated; 
there were poisonings of wealthy people who ate 
tomatoes. However, the poisonings did not occur 42 | The Hamilton Cookbookbecause of any inherent problem with the tomatoes. 
Instead, the problem occurred because the wealthy 
diners tended to use pewter plates containing 
lead. The acid in the tomatoes caused the lead to 
leach out of the plates, resulting in lead poisoning 
in some cases. Needless to say, both potatoes and tomatoes are now well accepted as components of 
the modern American diet. Another food scorned 
in Hamilton’s time was peanuts. A common snack 
food now, peanuts were considered food for the 
poor and for animals in that period, not for people 
who had other options.48 Chapter 4
Dining with
Alexander HamiltonDining with Alexander Hamilton | 45Eating in the W est Indies
We can’t know for sure what Hamilton ate growing 
up in the West Indies, but we do know that, as a 
white person, he lived a relatively poor existence 
until he moved into the Stevens’s home. That prob-
ably meant a diet heavy in bread and dried fish.  
The main crops of the islands, sugar, molasses, and 
rum, would have been available and his mother did 
run a grocery for a time. Maybe he ate traditional 
West Indian foods such as kallalo (a vegetable stew 
made with a green leafy plant such as amaranth 
or taro and sometimes with a bit of inexpensive 
meat such as a salted pigtail), fungi (a cornmeal 
dish), salt fish, lobster, red beans and rice, plantains, 
curried chicken, stewed mutton, conch fritters, and 
Johnny cakes. 
Spicy foods containing local chili peppers were 
popular. Perhaps the most popular pepper grown 
in the West Indies, the Scotch bonnet, comes in hot 
and hotter varieties. The latter can be more than 50 
to 100 times spicier than a jalapeño pepper. If Ham-
ilton liked hot peppers, he might have carried that 
taste into adulthood and enjoyed a specialty both of 
the West Indies and Philadelphia called Pepper Pot 
Soup (see the recipe on page 75). 
The prosperous Stevens family presumably 
ate well. Like Hamilton, the Stevens family was 
of Scottish ancestry. One visitor to the islands 
described such a family eating a typical Scottish 
breakfast of the time, which might have included a varied array of porridges or other hot cereals, 
meats, cheeses, eggs, fish, breads, co ffee, tea, and 
even rum.49 Following the European custom in that 
time, the Stevens family probably ate their large 
meal at midday, including several kinds of meats, 
fish, and poultry, along with numerous other dishes. 
A smaller meal, called supper, would have been typ-
ical in the evening. Of course, on St. Croix wealthy 
islanders like the Stevens family would have had 
access to local fruits that would not have made 
their way (by ship, without refrigeration) to the 
American colonies or Europe. And although neither 
Hamilton nor the Stevens family were of Danish 
descent, St. Croix was a Danish possession in the 
mid-1700s, so they might have eaten Red Grout, a 
compote made of guava or other local fruits thick-
ened with tapioca. Red Grout is the St. Croix version 
of the Danish dessert, rødgrød.50
Eating on the Mainland
During Hamilton’s time, the average American’s diet 
was meat-centered and heavy on bread and other 
starches. They tended to eat vegetables only in small 
amounts, often cooked in fat or covered in sauce. 
Colonists and Americans during the early Federal 
period did not drink much water or milk because 
those drinks tended to carry disease. Instead, 
they drank chocolate, tea, and co ffee made with 
water from outside the city where it was cleaner, 
and alcoholic beverages. (During periods when 46 | The Hamilton Cookbooktea was taxed by the British or being boycotted by 
the colonists, they avoided that beverage.) Hard 
cider, wines, and forti fied wines such as sherry and 
Madeira were favorites, along with rum from the 
West Indies and later whiskey. 
As an adult, Hamilton would not have had 
easy access to the local fruits common in the 
West Indies, but he still could have obtained rum, 
molasses, sugar, lemons, nutmeg, and allspice 
imported from the islands. 
Rum was the most popular drink in the eigh-
teenth century. Wines and forti fied wines such as 
sherry and Madeira, imported from the Azores, 
were also popular.51 Hamilton de finitely enjoyed 
wine. He drank wines paired with each course 
during fancy dinners, such as the one Je fferson 
hosted (see pages 49–50), and in the weeks before 
his death in 1804, his papers indicate that he 
bought $150 worth of wine.52 
Wheat was the most popular grain in the 
Mid-Atlantic, used for baking breads and sweets. 
Elizabeth Schuyler grew up in a household heavily 
influenced by her family’s Dutch traditions. Crisp 
spiced cookies called speculaas or speculoos, 
doughnuts, and butter cake or boterkoek would 
have been common sweets in her home, especially 
during the holidays.53
In Hamilton’s time, meat, especially beef, was  
a staple. Mutton, pork, veal, and animal parts  
rarely eaten today, such as tripe, were also popular. 
We know that the Hamiltons ate those because  they are on a list of the Hamilton family expenses 
from 1791.54
Dining with the Family
Before discussing the food, it is worth noting that 
dining rooms are a relatively new feature of houses. 
When Hamilton’s in-laws, the Schuylers, moved 
into their home in 1765, there was no such thing as 
a dining room. Dining chambers became popular 
in the U.S. only after the Revolutionary War. Before 
that time, the Schuylers and families such as theirs 
dined in any available spaces. For the Schuylers, 
that was in the central hallway in summer and in 
one of the parlors during other months.55 Once 
Alexander and Elizabeth married, they presumably 
would have taken to the then-new custom of cre-
ating a special space for dining. And when Hamilton 
designed The Grange just after 1800, it did contain a 
dining room.56
Breakfast in Hamilton’s world was typically not 
elaborate; it was often leftovers from the previous 
day’s larger meals. Those of Dutch ancestry, such 
as Elizabeth and her family, frequently ate bread 
and butter for breakfast with slices of dried beef 57 
or bread and butter with cheese and milk.58 Some, 
especially among the Dutch, also liked hot cereal, 
one type being a cornmeal and milk porridge called 
“suppawn. ” Shoo fly (or shoo- fly) pie, made with 
molasses from the West Indies, was popular in 
Pennsylvania, where Hamilton spent much time. A 
dry version of the pie, like a co ffee cake inside a pie Dining with Alexander Hamilton | 47crust, was a common breakfast food in that region.59 
Hamilton would have been familiar with molasses 
from his childhood in the West Indies, so it makes 
sense that he would have known of, and perhaps 
enjoyed, the shoo- fly pie “coffee cake. ”
While the most popular beverages for breakfast 
were beer and hard cider, there is at least some evi-
dence suggesting that Hamilton may have preferred 
coffee.60 Tea and hot chocolate were also popular. Of 
course, the drink an individual chose depended on 
availability and personal preference.61 
Although the Hamiltons had access to fresh 
milk when they stayed with Elizabeth’s family in 
Albany, that was not the case when they lived in 
lower Manhattan or Philadelphia. Because milk 
spoils quickly without refrigeration, those who lived 
far from dairies and did not own a cow typically did 
not drink milk or give it to children. Cheese, which 
is easier to safely store, was more readily available. 
The Hamilton’s third son, James, reminisced 
about breakfast with his family, describing his 
mother seated, as was her wont, at the head of 
the table with a napkin in her lap, cutting slices 
of bread and spreading them with butter for the 
younger boys, who standing at her side, read in turn 
a chapter in the Bible or a portion of Goldsmith’s 
Rome. When the lessons were finished, the father 
and the elder children were called to breakfast, after 
which the boys were packed o ff to school. 62
A British traveler described breakfast with 
George and Martha Washington in Philadelphia as follows: “Mrs. Washington herself made tea and 
coffee for us. On the table were two small plates 
of sliced tongue, dry toast, bread and butter, etc., 
but no broiled fish as is the general custom. ”63 This 
description could have applied to Hamilton’s break-
fast as well.
The largest meal of the day was the dinner 
meal at midday, at least until the end of the 1700s. 
It might have had a number of courses, including 
soup, several types of meats, fish, stews, and sweets. 
The meal at the end of the day, supper, was typically 
lighter and with fewer courses than dinner. Toward 
the end of the 1700s, those following the English 
style moved the dinner meal to the late afternoon.64 
With many children to feed and sometimes- 
strained finances, the Hamiltons’ large midday 
meals at home may not have been elegant a ffairs, 
but they likely would have included ample food. 
Along with the several meats customarily served, 
they enjoyed potatoes and turnips (root vegetables 
that can stay fresh in root cellars or other cool 
storage for considerable periods), as well as apples 
and pears. While entertaining would have likely 
involved a number of courses and di fferent dishes, 
when they ate as a family, the Hamiltons might well 
have enjoyed a large, one-pot meal such as a stew 
with vegetables. 
Supper would have been a meal of leftovers, 
porridge, or similar foods. This light meal could be 
similar to breakfast or more of what we might eat 
for lunch today. 48 | Th e Hamilton Cookbook
No Take-Out 
or Restaurant Meals 
for the Hamilton Family
Family dining was an at-home activity in 
Hamilton’s time. Th ere were no freestanding 
restaurants, and typically, families did not go 
out to eat in the establishments that existed for 
dining away from home. Eating out was usually the 
preserve of men with business a ff airs to conduct, 
whether at a co ff eehouse, an oyster cellar, a tavern, 
or a dining room in a hotel.65 Hamilton certainly 
visited at least one famous tavern, Fraunces, which 
opened in 1762 and operates today in renovated 
space at the same location where it existed in 
Hamilton’s day, near his home in lower Manhattan. 
Another dining-out locale not too far from his 
home was City Hotel on Broadway. It opened in 
1794 and served “family-style” meals (but, ironi-
cally, not to families) at long tables.66Hamilton as a Dinner Guest
Elaborate dinners were part of the social scene that 
Hamilton enjoyed so much. Th ose meals could last 
for hours and included many dishes, prepared and 
served by slaves, indentured, or “free” servants. 
Th e Hamiltons dined with the George and 
Martha Washington at numerous points during 
their decades-long relationship. Th ey also socialized 
with numerous other luminaries of their time, such 
as John Jay, James Madison (with whom Hamilton 
was friendly at the time they wrote /T_h e Federalist 
Papers , even though they later became estranged), 
local political fi gures, and society fi gures such 
as William and Ann Willing Bingham in Phila-
delphia. Such dinners would have been opulent 
aff airs, including many more courses and a greater 
variety of dishes than one would normally fi nd at a 
21st-century dinner party. 
One example was the dinner that George 
Washington hosted at the Morris-Jumel Mansion 
in New York on July 10, 1790, for members of his 
new administration. Th e eighteen guests included 
the Secretaries of Treasury (Hamilton), War (Henry 
Knox), State ( Th omas Jeff erson), and Vice-President 
John Adams, along with their wives. Th e party spent 
a full day touring the ruins of a Revolutionary War 
battlefi eld later called Fort Washington, and then 
went to the house that had been Washington’s 
military headquarters.67 A cook hired by Washing ton 
prepared a large dinner for the guests, which Dining with Alexander Hamilton | 49they ate outside because there was no room large 
enough to seat them all for a meal.68
Men also dined socially without their wives. An 
example of Washington’s hospitality “for men only” 
was a dinner Hamilton attended in Philadelphia on 
February 20, 1792, a few days before Washington’s 
sixtieth birthday. The guests were Alexander Ham-
ilton, John Adams, Henry Knox, Thomas Jefferson, 
and President Washington’s private secretary, 
Tobias Lear. The dinner included “soups, broiled 
pork, goose, roast beef, mutton chops, hominy, cab-
bage potatoes, fried tripe, onions, fish, mince pies, 
torts, cheese and a variety of vegetables. ” The Pres-
ident and his guests washed down their food with 
beer and cider. Dessert was “chocolate pudding, 
cream trifle, macarons, and apple pie. ” After dinner 
they sampled several wines, including nonspar-
kling or still champagne. Je fferson explained to the 
assembled group that the still variety was consid-
ered in France to be preferable to the more common 
sparkling champagne. According to the diary of 
William Maclay, this was typical of the dinners 
served by President Washington.69
Another dinner Washington served had a 
similarly large menu. One guest, Joshua Brooks, 
remembered:
…leg of boiled pork at the head of the table, a 
goose at the foot and in between roast beef, 
round cold boiled beef, mutton chops, hominy, 
cabbage, potatoes, pickles, fried tripe and 
onions. Beverages o ffered during dinner, wine, 
porter and beer. The table cloth was wiped off before the second course of mince pies, 
tarts, cheese. The cloth was removed and port 
and Madeira served along with nuts, raisins, 
apples.70 
Jefferson Hosted Hamilton  
at a Meal that Changed History
Certainly, the most famous dinner that Hamilton 
attended was the one that Thomas Jefferson hosted 
on June 20, 1790. He invited only two guests: Ham-
ilton and James Madison.
At that dinner, the three men forged a com-
promise. In exchange for Hamilton’s support for 
locating the nation’s capital in the South on the 
Potomac River (now Washington, D.C.), Madison 
would rally Virginia’s support for Hamilton’s plan 
to have the federal government assume state debts 
as part of his vision to establish a strong federal 
monetary policy. 
James Hemings, Je fferson’s slave (and Sally 
Hemings’s brother), a French-trained chef, prepared 
the dinner. It began with salad served with wine 
jelly made from boiled calves feet (hooves), Madeira 
wine, milk, lemon juice, and sugar. Then there were 
two first, or main, courses. The first was capon (a 
rooster that is castrated to improve the quality of 
its meat), which was stu ffed with Virginia ham and 
chestnut purée, artichoke bottoms, and tru ffles, 
with a bit of cream, white wine, and chicken stock. 
A sauce made with Calvados, an apple brandy 
from the French region of Normandy, was served 50 | The Hamilton Cookbookalongside the capon. Je fferson, who was quite a 
wine connoisseur, had brought back numerous 
wines from Europe and he enjoyed choosing the 
proper wine to go with each course. He served 
this course with a red wine from Montepulciano, in Tuscany. The second part of the first, or main, 
course was an Americanized version of the 
famed French dish boeuf a la mode . That meat 
dish was served with another red wine, but this 
time from the Burgundy region of France. Before 
dessert there was a sweets course that included 
meringues, macaroons, and a deep-fried egg-
and-flour cookie known as a “bell fritter. ” Dessert 
was vanilla ice cream enclosed in a warm pastry, 
which was described as like a cream pu ff. There is 
some dispute over exactly what this dessert was—
how the pastry worked and whether it was like a 
modern pro fiterole split open or closer to ice cream 
enclosed in a pu ff pastry crust. However it looked, 
apparently Hamilton was enthralled. One author of 
an account of this dinner described his reaction as 
“Hamilton positively exulted as if his Assumption 
Bill had just passed by a huge vote. ”71 
A Hamilton Dinner Party
When Alexander and Elizabeth Hamilton gave  
a dinner party, who would have attended, what  
would it have been like, and what would they  
have served? 
The guest list, of course, would have depended 
on who was living close by at the time. Hamilton 
did give work-related dinners, such as the one he 
hosted for Je fferson when the latter returned from 
France, and a dinner for military o fficers who 
served with him.72Ice cream-making implements and serving utensils from  
L’art de bien faire les glacesBitting Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of C ongress, Washington, DC
Dining with Alexander Hamilton | 51But if we look simply at who they would have 
wanted to entertain, several close friends of Hamil-
ton’s come immediately to mind: 
• Robert Troup, who lived with the Hamiltons 
at the Schuyler’s home in Albany for a time.
• Edward Stevens, his physician and close 
friend from St. Croix who saved Alexander 
and Elizabeth when they contracted  
yellow fever.
• Hercules Mulligan, one of the first people 
Hamilton met when he arrived in New York 
as an eighteen-year-old.
• John Jay, a Founding Father, friend, and a 
co-author of /T_he Federalist Papers.  
• Nicholas Fish, with whom Hamilton served 
in the military during the Revolutionary War.
• William Livingston, a Founding Father who 
helped Hamilton when he first came to the 
colonies.
• Rufus King, another Founding Father who 
worked with Hamilton, Gouverneur Morris, 
Madison, and William Samuel Johnson to 
prepare the final draft of the United States 
Constitution.
• Gouverneur Morris, a Founding Father who 
was also on the drafting committee for the 
Constitution, and a close friend. (He gave the 
eulogy at Hamilton’s funeral in 1804.)And, of course, both of the Hamiltons would 
have wanted as guests Elizabeth’s sister Angelica and 
her husband (their brother-in-law), John Church. 
The meal would have been eaten on their 
gold-embossed tableware, a gift from the Churches. 
Conversation would have been lively, as Hamilton 
was known to be an excellent dinner companion. 
And there would have been lots of wine, which 
Hamilton liked to drink on social occasions at home 
as well as elsewhere. 
The Menu for a Hamilton  
Dinner Party
As to the menu, there would probably have been 
soup, followed by many meat and vegetable dishes, 
with a number of fruits, nuts, and sweets after-
wards. The custom at that time was to serve all of 
the dishes for a course at once and each course had 
several pieces of tableware, so the table would have 
been laden with serving tureens and plates. 
In a popular cookbook of the period, /T_he Art of 
Cookery Made Plain and Easy,73 Hannah Glasse lays 
out menus for a party in each month of the year. 
Glasse provides three courses, consisting of about 
eight to ten di fferent dishes. Needless to say, the 
Hamiltons might have opted for a less elaborate 
meal, but even at half the number of dishes, it is still 
quite a feast.52 | The Hamilton CookbookBitting Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of C ongress, Washington, DC
January Bill of Fare from The Art of Cookery Made Plain 
and Easy
January Bill of Fare from The English Art of CookeryPennell Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of C ongress, Washington, DC Dining with Alexander Hamilton | 53Another cookbook of the era, /T_he English Art of 
Cookery, According to the Present Practice  by Richard 
Briggs,74 provides menus that are even more elabo-
rate. Those menus, in diagram form for each month, 
show where each dish should be laid on the table. 
Briggs prescribes two courses for a “bill of fare. ” 
Each of those courses included five main dishes set 
down the center of the table, with five dishes on 
each long side of the table, and two sauces or con-
diments on each side, set between the lines of main 
dishes and side dishes. Not counting the sauces and 
condiments, those dinners included fifteen dishes 
in each course for a total of thirty dishes in a dinner, 
not including the fruits, nuts, and sweets served 
afterwards in this number. 
Even setting the table for dessert or tea could 
involve rather intricate details. In his book /T_he Com-
plete Confectioner , Frederic Nutt set out a variety 
of such tables for sweets. Opposite is one that Nutt 
suggests. 
At their dinner party, the Hamiltons might have 
served:
First Course (with appropriate sauces and 
“garden stu ﬀ, ” as Hannah Glasse termed it)
Green Pea Soup 
Roasted Beef
Lamb Pie
TurbotSecond Course (with appropriate sauces)
Scolloped Oysters
Roasted Sweetbreads
Fricasee of Rabbits
Small Roasted Turkey
Peas
Stewed Celery
Third Course (with appropriate sauces)
Matelot of Eels
Preserved Oranges
Green Gooseberry Tart
Mushrooms
Raisins
Lambs Tails a la BraiseDiagram of table of sweets from The Complete ConfectionerBitting Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of C ongress, Washington, DC
54 | The Hamilton CookbookOne item we can be fairly sure they would have 
included after such a meal is ice cream. Known in 
the English-speaking world since the mid-1700s, ice 
cream was advertised in New York City as early as 
1777.75 At that time, ice cream was typically made in 
America and England using fruit or other flavoring 
and cream, cooled in a tub of ice and salt, and 
stirred while it thickened. It was often served in a 
mold or pastry shells. 
Travelers such as Je fferson and Angelica 
Church expanded Americans’ ice cream horizons 
by introducing them to the French, custard-style ice 
cream. We know that the Hamiltons loved ice cream 
and they supposedly introduced George and Martha 
Washington to the joys of ice cream when the Ham-
iltons hosted the Washingtons at a dinner in 1789.76 
Hamilton himself enjoyed it at the June 1790 dinner 
at Jefferson’s home. So even though we might not be 
familiar with many of the items served earlier in the 
meal, we can be sure that by dessert, a twenty- first 
century American would feel right at home eating a 
Hamilton dinner.
Ice cream molds and related items from L’art de bien faire 
les glacesBitting Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of C ongress, Washington, DC
Chapter 5 
Explanation 
of RecipesExplanation  of Recipes | 57Each recipe is presented in two forms: the orig-
inal recipe from the Hamilton-era cookbook 
where I found it and my adaptation of the recipe, 
using twenty- first century ingredients, measure-
ments, and techniques. 
But first, a few notes…
Why does this book cite various editions  
of the same cookbook?
Old cookbooks were often published in di fferent 
editions, sometimes decades apart. The recipes and 
book format often changed substantially from one 
edition to the next. I reviewed multiple editions of 
several of the old cookbooks cited; sometimes the 
recipe or menu I decided to adapt was in multiple 
versions of the book and at other times it appeared 
only in one version. 
How close are the adaptations to the  
original recipes?
I tried to preserve the basic intent of the original 
recipes, while making them accessible to the 
modern cook/reader. 
In some cases, an ingredient was not widely 
available, so I used the closest substitute. For 
example, in Hamilton’s time, many recipes, both for 
sweet and savory dishes, called for “blades of mace. ” 
That form of the spice is a lacy outer covering on 
the nutmeg shell. While I found it online, a jar of 
blades of mace is expensive and not widely available in stores. So instead, I used the ground form of 
mace, which is less expensive and more easily found 
in stores with large selections of spices. Another 
substitution was lamb for mutton. The cookbooks 
of Hamilton’s era called for mutton, which is sheep 
at least one year old and typically three years old. 
Indeed, the records of Hamilton family purchases 
show they ate lots of mutton. However, mutton is 
no longer popular in the US and I could not find it, 
even from specialty butchers. Instead, I substituted 
lamb, which comes from sheep less than a year old. 
In the case of measurements, if the dish yielded 
enough to serve a large crowd, I scaled it down. 
For example, the original gingerbread recipe serves 
about twenty. I halved that to make a large nine-
inch (or twenty-three-centimeter cake), an ample 
size for eight to ten people. 
Some measurements used in old recipes are 
easy to understand, but in a few cases, such as the 
strawberry water, the recipe is vague. The straw-
berry water recipe calls for a “pottle” of strawberries 
(a basket of varying size, holding anywhere from 
a quart to a pint of berries). I just had to guess at 
the amount of strawberries and the intensity of the 
desired strawberry flavor.
In the adapted recipes, why are two ingredients 
with the same volume measurement (e.g., teaspoons, 
cups) sometimes di fferent weight measurements? 
How much space an ingredient takes up when 
measured (volume) is unrelated to how much that 58 | The Hamilton Cookbookingredient weighs. For example, a tablespoon of 
unsweetened cocoa weighs around 5 grams, while  
a tablespoon of sugar weighs about 12 grams.  
Keep in mind that a gram is quite a small amount 
(there are more than 28 grams in an ounce) and that 
different sources may provide slightly di fferent mea-
surements for the same amount of an ingredient. 
Depending on how you weigh all-purpose flour  
(e.g., sifted vs. unsifted, spoon-and-sweep vs. dipp ed) 
a one cup measurement in grams can vary from  
120 to 142 grams. 
How did you pick the recipes that are  
in this book?
I looked for recipes representing a variety of foods 
that the Hamiltons ate (or might well have eaten) 
and that would appeal to modern readers. There 
were lots of recipes from which to choose, so when 
it came down to deciding between several similar 
recipes, or deciding which vegetables to include, 
that was decidedly unscienti fic. I am not a picky 
eater and I love trying new recipes, so the choices 
between recipes were sometimes hard to make. 
But, just like my own mother never made us 
eggplant when we were kids because she didn’t like it, when in doubt, I went with my taste buds. That 
meant that I chose bread pudding over rice pudding 
and hoe cakes over porridge. For one recipe choice, 
I owe a hat tip to my son, Liam, who lives in Phila-
delphia. Once, when chatting about my progress on 
the book, he asked whether Pepper Pot Soup would 
be included. Knowing nothing about that soup, I 
began to research its origins and components. Once 
I understood Pepper Pot’s connection to the West 
Indies as well as Philadelphia, it was obvious that it 
deserved a place among my Hamilton-era recipes. 
How can I find other recipes from  
Hamilton’s era?
Numerous cookbooks from Hamilton’s time and 
other time periods are digitized online. Three great 
sources for those digitized editions are the digitized 
materials from the Katharine Golden Bitting Collec-
tion of publications and gastronomy at: loc.gov/rr/
rarebook/coll/028.html, the Joseph and Elizabeth 
Robins Pennell Collection of graphic arts, papers, 
and cookbooks at loc.gov/rr/print/coll/183.html, 
both at the US Library of Congress, and the Hathi-
Trust Digital Library at hathitrust.org.Chapter 6
Original & Adapted 
RecipesRecipe Contents
Breakfast & Breads
Bread Pudding 65
Toaster Oven English Rabbit 67
Johnny or Hoe Cakes 69
Soups
Split Pea Soup 73
West Indian Pepper Pot Soup 75
Fish & Seafood
Baked Whole White fi sh 78
Scalloped Oysters 81
Meats
Beef a la Mode 85
Fried Sausages and Apples 87
Lamb Stew 88
Slow Cooker Corned Beef 90Vegetables
Caulifl ower Florets Two Ways 95
Dutch-Style Red Cabbage 96
Salad
Salamagundy Salad 100
Sweets 
Apple Pie 104
Chocolate Pu ff s 106
Gingerbread Cake 109
Vanilla Ice Cream 110
Puff  Pastry 112
Beverages
Hot Chocolate 116
Lemon Syllabub 119
Strawberry Water 120Breakfast & Breads
Original & Adapted Recipes | 65Bread Pudding
Adapted from “A Bread Pudding,” Amelia Simmons, 
American Cookery.
Serves 4 to 6
/T_h e better the bread, the better this bread pud-
ding. I use a country white or sourdough with 
a nice crust. It pu ff s up slightly when baking, 
so if your casserole or sou ffl  é dish is fi lled to 
the brim, put a cookie sheet underneath as it 
bakes, in order to avoid drips on the oven fl oor. 
Fabulous with a dollop of whipped cream or ice 
cream for dessert, this bread pudding is also 
delicious cold or re-heated for breakfast.
INGREDIENTS
½ pound crusty bread cut into small chunks 
(about ½- to 1-inch or cubes)
2 cups whole milk
4 large eggs
¾ cup granulated sugar
1½ cup raisins
½ cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon rosewater or vanilla extract
4 tablespoons or ½ stick unsalted butter, cut into 
small pieces, plus more for buttering the dish1. If the bread is not already stale: Preheat oven to 
300°F. Put the bread cubes onto a cookie sheet 
and bake until they are no longer soft. Typically, 
this step takes 15 or more minutes, depending on 
how stale the bread is at the beginning. 
2. Increase the oven temperature to 350°F.
3. Butter a two-quart casserole or sou ffl  é dish, and 
set aside.
4. Put the bread cubes and milk in a large bowl. Let 
the mixture stand until the bread soaks up most 
or all of the liquid. 
5. Add all remaining ingredients except the butter. 
Stir until combined.
6. Pour the ingredients into the prepared casserole 
and dot it with the butter. Let the unbaked 
bread pudding stand on the counter at least 
20 minutes, to give the mixture time to soak into 
the bread. 
7. Put a cookie sheet underneath the casserole 
(to catch any drips) and bake the bread pudding 
for about 45 to 60 minutes, until a knife inserted 
in the middle comes out clean. 
8. Let the bread pudding cool down for at least 
15 to 20 minutes before serving. Original & Adapted Recipes | 67Toaster Oven  
English Rabbit
Adapted from “To Make an English Rabbit,” Hannah 
Glasse, The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 1
Rarebit (or rabbit in the original spelling) is 
toasted bread with melted cheese. Hannah 
Glasse had three versions: Scotch (plain), Welch 
(with mustard), and English (with red wine). 
/T_his English Rabbit is like a spiked cheese 
fondue without having to fuss with a fondue  
pot. If you’re scaling the recipe to serve more 
than 2 people, you may want to use a larger 
(“regular”) oven in order to bake all the slices  
of bread at once. 
INGREDIENTS
2 small or 1 large thick slice of crusty country white  
or sourdough bread
2 to 3 ounces dry red wine
1½ to 2 ounces sharp cheddar cheese, grated  
or thinly sliced
Oil, optional1. Toast the bread. Once you remove it from the 
toaster oven, turn the oven to a bake setting and 
preheat at 350°F.
2. Put the bread in a wide-bottomed bowl or a 
plate with sides and pour the wine over it. Let 
the bread sit in the wine until all of the liquid is 
absorbed.
3. Either oil the bottom of the toaster oven pan  
or line it with foil. Place the wine-soaked bread 
on the pan and top with the cheese. Bake until 
the cheese bubbles. 
4. Serve the toasted bread hot. Original & Adapted Recipes | 69Johnny or Hoe Cakes
Adapted from “Johny Cake, or Hoe Cake,”  
Amelia Simmons, American Cookery.
Serves about 12  
(2- to 3-inch patties)
/T_hese Johnny (Johny) or Hoe Cakes do not 
have leavening. As a result, they are sti ffer and 
heavier than modern pancakes. /T_he molasses 
makes them slightly sweet. You can eat them 
with your hands. I dipped them in maple 
syrup for a snack. Increasing the liquid (milk) 
to a 1-to-1 ratio of cornmeal to liquid yields a 
thinner, more pancake-like patty. 
INGREDIENTS
2 cups cornmeal
½ teaspoon kosher or sea salt
1 cup milk, scalded (heated almost to boiling  
and then cooled slightly)
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons molasses
Vegetable oil for frying1. Mix the salt into the cornmeal in a medium 
bowl, and set aside.
2. Add the melted butter and the molasses to the 
scalded milk and mix well until the molasses 
dissolves in the hot liquid.
3. Add the liquid ingredients to the cornmeal mix-
ture. Mix well and let stand for 1 to 2 minutes. 
Then add cold water by tablespoonsful, probably 
2 to 3 tablespoons will su ffice, until the mixture 
is pliable but still sti ff enough to form by hand 
into patties about ¼- to ½-inch thick.
4. Heat a heavy pan, preferably cast iron. Add the 
vegetable oil, then put the 4 to 6 patties into the 
pan. Cook about 3 minutes until the patties are 
well browned, then flip them and fry their other 
side. Repeat with any remaining batter. 
5. Serve immediately. Soups
Original & Adapted Recipes | 73Split Pea Soup
Adapted from “Another Green Peas Soup,” Richard 
Briggs, The English Art of Cookery.
Serves 8
/T_his mildly seasoned vegetarian pea soup is 
thick and hearty, a perfect supper for a chilly 
evening. Hamilton’s family would probably 
have served a version with meat in the Dutch 
tradition. (Elizabeth Hamilton’s family was of 
Dutch origin and highly in fluenced by the Dutch 
traditions that remained prevalent around their 
Albany home.) /T_he Dutch version, called erwten -
soep  or snert , typically includes pork products 
such as a Dutch sausage called rookworst . 
Instead of croutons, they might have had rye 
bread topped with Dutch-style smoked bacon.INGREDIENTS
2¼ cups or 1 pound dried split green peas 
3 medium-large onions (about 1 to 1 ½ pounds),  
peeled and chopped 
1 or 2 small-medium turnips (about ½ to 1 pound), 
peeled and chopped
1 large carrot (about 3 to 4 ounces), peeled  
and chopped
3 cabbage leaves, coarsely cut
1 handful of spinach leaves, tough stems removed
½ teaspoon ground mace
2 pinches ground cloves
2 teaspoons kosher or sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Croutons
1. Boil 2 quarts (8 cups) of water. Add the split peas 
and simmer about 1 hour or until the peas are 
tender and fully cooked. 
2. Add 1 to 2 more cups of water. Bring the peas 
and liquid to a boil. Add the vegetables, mace, 
and cloves. Cover and simmer about 15 minutes, 
until the vegetables are tender. Season with the 
salt and pepper. 
3. Purée the soup in a stand blender or with an 
immersion blender, and adjust seasonings to 
taste. If the soup is too thick for your taste, add  
a bit more water. 
4. Serve topped with croutons. Original & Adapted Recipes | 75We s t  In d i a n  Pe p p e r  Po t  So u p
Adapted from “A West-India Pepper Pot,” Richard 
Briggs, The English Art of Cookery.
Serves 8 to 10
/T_his soup, popular both in the West Indies and 
in the Philadelphia area, is a mélange of many 
ingredients and spices. /T_he taste is complex  
and exotic.
INGREDIENTS
2 to 4 tablespoons olive or other oil, divided
1 pound veal or veal sausage, cut into pieces
½ pound cooked ham, cut into pieces
1 lamb chop, about 4 to 5 ounces, cut into chunks
2 pounds stew beef (chuck roast or similar cut),  
cut into chunks if it is not pre-cut
3 medium onions, peeled and chopped 
2 stalks celery, chopped 
1 large or 2 small leeks, cleaned and chopped  
(white to light green parts only)
1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves  
or 1 teaspoon dried thyme
1½ teaspoons fresh rosemary leaves  
or ½ teaspoon dried rosemary leaves
2 bay leaves
3 cloves
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon ground allspice
¼ teaspoon ground mace
1 large carrot, cut into chunks
1 small-medium turnip, cut into chunks
6 leaves of cabbage, thinly sliced into ribbonsa 6-ounce can of crabmeat, drained
Cayenne pepper or dried red pepper ﬂakes, to taste
2 tablespoons unsalted butter 
2¼ cups (or more all-purpose ﬂour, divided 
¾ teaspoon kosher or sea salt (for dumplings),  
plus more for soup if desired
1. Heat 1 to 2 tablespoons of oil and brown the 
meats in a large pan, in batches if necessary. 
Remove the meat to a bowl, and set aside. 
2. Add the remaining oil to a pan; on medium heat, 
cook the onion, celery, and leeks a few minutes 
until they release their juices. Add the herbs and 
spices and continue cooking for 3 to 4 minutes. 
3. Put the onions, celery, leeks, and meats (except 
the crab) in a very large pot, add 2 quarts of 
boiling water and cook, skimming the foam o ff 
the soup while simmering it for 1 ½ to 2 hours. 
4. In a small saucepan, melt the butter and 2 
tablespoons flour. Stir together until fully mixed 
( forming a roux) and cook 1 to 2 minutes, stir-
ring continuously. Add the roux to the soup and 
stir until the roux is fully incorporated, then add 
the carrot, turnip, cabbage, and canned crab. 
Bring the soup to a simmer.
5. For the dumplings: Mix the salt and remaining 
2 cups of flour in a medium-sized deep bowl. 
Slowly add ¾ to 1 cup water and mix until the 
dough is wet but not runny. Form walnut-sized 
pieces (I use a spoon) from the dough and drop 
them into the simmering soup. Cover and cook 
the dumplings 15 to 20 minutes, then immedi-
ately serve the soup.Fish & Seafood
78 | The Hamilton CookbookBaked Whole White fish
Adapted from “To bake a Turbot,” Hannah Glasse,  
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 2 
/T_his recipe, originally written for turbot (a flat  
fish similar to flounder), works well with any  
similar-sized white, mild, and flaky whitefish  
(e.g., black bass, branzino, or trout). When Hannah  
Glasse adds “catchup” to the sauce, she is not 
referring to the spicy-sweet tomato sauce we call 
ketchup. Instead, she probably meant a thick 
anchovy- or mushroom-based condiment. She 
suggests serving this fish cold, but I prefer it hot. 
INGREDIENTS
Whole, mild whiteﬁsh about 2 ½ to 3 pounds, scaled, 
gutted, and ﬁns removed. Optional: Ask the ﬁsh 
store to remove the head and tail. Depending on  
the type of ﬁsh, you may need two smaller ﬁsh,  
each 1¼ to 1½ pounds.
1 cup dry white wine (enough to go about ¾ of  
the way up the ﬁsh when it is placed in the pan), 
plus a splash for sauce
1 tablespoon minced parsley
1½ tablespoons unsalted butter, divided
1 tablespoon all-purpose ﬂour
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
½ teaspoon kosher or coarse sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
½ cup breadcrumbs, slightly moistened with  
melted butter
Lemon slices 1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. Place the whole prepared fish (minus head and 
tail) into a pan with high sides that is just large 
enough to fit the fish snugly. Pour 1 cup of the 
wine into the pan; add the parsley. 
3. Dot the fish with 1 tablespoon of butter and 
sprinkle the flour over the top, along with the 
nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Add the breadcrumbs 
and bake 10 to 25 minutes or until the fish is fully 
cooked. (It should flake easily when you pick 
off a small piece with a fork.) The wide range of 
cooking times is due to the varied thicknesses 
of the fish. For thinner fish such as turbot and 
flounder, the baking time will be less; it will be 
longer for thicker fish such as bass, branzino,  
or trout.
4. Remove the fish and bring the pan drippings to 
the stovetop, either in the pan (if it is safe for 
stovetop cooking) or in a small saucepan. Add 
the remaining ½ tablespoon of butter and the 
splash of wine. Bring this small amount of sauce 
to a boil. Immediately pour it over the fish and 
serve with lemon slices. Original & Adapted Recipes | 81Scalloped Oysters 
Adapted from “To make Scollops of Oysters,” Hannah 
Glasse, The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 2 as a main course, or 4 as an appetizer  
or side dish
/T_his simple dish consists of baked oysters and a 
crunchy breadcrumb topping. /T_he flavors of the 
oysters and the buttery topping shine without 
seasoning. If you prefer a more seasoned ver-
sion, add a bit of Dijon mustard to the liquid or 
serve the dish with hot sauce on the side.
INGREDIENTS
½ cup fresh breadcrumbs, preferably from  
a baguette or other bread with a crispy crust
½ cup Panko breadcrumbs
⅛ teaspoon kosher or sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 tablespoons butter, melted
1 pint (1 pound) shucked oysters,  
including their juices
2 tablespoons whole milk, half-and-half,  
or heavy cream1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
2. Mix both styles of breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and 
butter in a small bowl. 
3. Spread the oysters with their juices in an 
ovenproof dish just large enough to contain the 
oysters in a single layer. (A casserole dish about  
5 × 7½-inches works well.) Note: If the oysters 
you use are already shucked in a jar, make sure 
the liquid is all oyster “juice. ” If the jar indicates 
that it includes water, add only a few tablespoons 
of the liquid—not all of it. The oysters should be 
barely wet with juices. 
4. Add the milk, half-and-half, or cream, and stir 
just enough to make sure that the oyster juices 
and the dairy are combined. 
5. Top with the breadcrumb mixture and bake 20 
to 25 minutes, until the breadcrumbs are golden 
brown. If the breadcrumbs brown too quickly, 
once they are golden, cover the casserole lightly 
with aluminum foil and continue cooking. 
6. Serve immediately.Meats
Original & Adapted Recipes | 85Beef à la Mode 
Adapted from “Beef à la Mode in Pieces,” Hannah 
Glasse, The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 6 to 8
/T_his recipe is what I call pot roast. /T_he gravy 
is rather thin (because it has no flour or other 
thickener), but flavorful. Adding carrot, potato, 
turnip, and/or parsnip chunks cooked sepa-
rately or added during the last 20 to 30 minutes 
of simmering, turns this dish into an appetizing 
one-pot dinner. /T_he original recipe calls for  
multiple two-pound pieces of meat, hence the 
name “in Pieces. ” /T_his adaptation makes a 
smaller amount, with a single piece of meat 
roughly that size.
INGREDIENTS 
3 to 4 strips bacon, cut into triangles 1 to 2 inches  
long and about 1 inch wide, with a point at one  
end. Freeze until the bacon triangles are hard.
Stewing beef such as chuck roast,  
roughly 2 to 3 pounds
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 quart beef broth or stock
1 medium onion, peeled and thinly sliced
¼ teaspoon ground mace
2 whole cloves or ¼ teaspoon ground cloves
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
Kosher or sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper1. Cut tiny slits in the meat about every two inches, 
and insert the frozen bacon triangles, pointy end 
first. Work them all the way into the meat. They 
will soften and cook along with the meat. 
2. Heat the olive oil in a Dutch oven or other heavy 
pot that is just about the size of the beef. Sear the 
meat on all sides. Add the broth or stock, onion 
slices, mace, cloves, and nutmeg. Cover the pot 
and bring the liquid to a boil, then reduce the 
heat until the liquid is at a simmer. Simmer for 
about 1½ to 1¾ hours, then add salt and pepper 
to taste. Continue cooking until the beef is 
tender, about 15 to 30 minutes longer.
3. Skim off the fat or use a fat separator, remove the 
onion, and strain the liquid. Note: An easy way to 
skim fat if you are not serving the meat imme-
diately is to refrigerate the meat and gravy until 
the fat congeals, then scrape it o ff with a spoon. 
The beef and strained “sauce” may be reheated 
or the beef may be served cold or room tempera-
ture with room temperature sauce.Original & Adapted Recipes | 87Fried Sausages and Apples
Adapted from “Fried Sausages,” Hannah Glasse,  
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 2 (as a main dish)
/T_his dish is great for a weeknight dinner; it is 
quick to prepare and uses just one large pan.  
It makes a full meal with just a salad and a  
loaf of crusty bread.
INGREDIENTS
½ to ¾ pound thick country or other similarly spiced 
chicken, turkey, or pork sausage (about 1-inch  
in diameter)
4 to 6 apples, preferably of mixed varieties, peeled and 
quartered. Any apples that keep their shape will 
work (e.g., Granny Smith, Yellow and Red Delicious, 
and Fuji). Quarter, and thinly slice half of the 
quartered apples. 1. In a large, heavy pan, start the sausages cooking 
under medium-high heat. As soon as the sau-
sages begin to render their juices, add the thin 
apple slices. Turn both the sausages and the 
apple slices so that they brown evenly. 
2. Once the apple slices begin to brown, add the 
apple quarters, and stir occasionally. After 2 to 
3 minutes, cover the pan for a few minutes. That 
helps the apples soften and brown. It will also 
allow a bit of liquid to accumulate in the pan. 
Uncover the pan and continue cooking until the 
sausages are fully cooked. ( The time required to 
cook the sausages depends on their thickness, 
typically about 10 to 15 minutes. You can ensure 
that the middle cooks thoroughly by cutting 
the sausages down the middle vertically to 
butterfly them after 10 minutes, laying them flat 
to continue cooking for another 3 to 5 minutes.) 
The thin apple slices will slightly disintegrate 
into a chunky applesauce, while the quarters will 
remain whole.
3. Serve on a platter with the sausages in the 
middle along with the applesauce, surrounded 
by the apple quarters. 88 | The Hamilton CookbookLamb Stew
Adapted from “A Harrico of Mutton,” Hannah Glasse, 
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 6 to 8
/T_his stew is a tasty, one-dish meal, with a light 
broth. /T_he original recipe calls for mutton, but 
it is difficult to find in North America. Lamb 
is meat from a sheep less than one year old. 
Stronger tasting and tougher than lamb, mutton 
is from an animal older than one year, and typ-
ically about three years old. Using lamb that is 
intended for stewing ( from the neck, shoulder, or 
breast) approximates the consistency of mutton. 
While the flavor may not be as strong as mutton, 
stewing lamb still has a markedly di fferent taste 
than beef.
INGREDIENTS
3 pounds of boneless lamb stew meat (from the neck, 
shoulder, or breast) cut into 2-inch cubes. (If you 
buy lamb on the bone and cube it yourself, count 
on about 4 ¾ pounds of bone-in meat.)
½ cup all-purpose ﬂour
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, oil, or a combination
¼ teaspoon ground mace
1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves or 1 teaspoon  
dried leaves
1 bay leaf
12 chestnuts, blanched if fresh, or jarred (already 
blanched) ½ teaspoon kosher or sea salt, plus more to taste
Freshly ground black pepper
1 to 2 small-medium turnips (about 8 ounces), peeled 
and cut into chunks 
3 medium carrots (about 8 ounces), peeled and cut 
into chunks
2 to 3 leaves Romaine lettuce or white cabbage, 
shredded or cut into small pieces
6 pearl onions (the small boiling type) 
1. Put the flour into a plastic bag. Add the cubed 
lamb and shake until all the meat is well covered 
with flour. Shake o ff the excess flour and set the 
lamb cubes aside. 
2. Heat the butter or oil in a heavy skillet and sear 
the lamb cubes on all sides. Transfer them to a 
heavy pot. Add the ground mace and the herbs, 
chestnuts, and 2 cups of water.
3. Cover and let the meat and chestnuts simmer 
for 1 hour. Drain o ff the fat. (If you’re making the 
stew at least a few hours before serving, or the 
previous day, remove the fat by refrigerating the 
stew, then spooning o ff the solidi fied fat before 
adding the vegetables.) 
4. Add the salt and pepper, to taste, and vegetables; 
cook about 15 minutes until the carrots and 
turnips are softened. 90 | The Hamilton CookbookSlow Cooker Corned Beef
Adapted from “To Stew Brisket of Beef,” Briggs,  
The English Art of Cookery.
Serves 4 to 6
Like the original version, this recipe uses beef 
preserved by corning. However, it begins with 
an already corned piece of brisket, commonly 
available in modern grocery stores. If you would 
like to corn your own brisket from scratch, here 
two resources on how to do that: 
simplyrecipes.com/recipes/home_cured 
_corned_beef
ruhlman.com/2010/03/corned-beef-how-to 
-cure-your-own
INGREDIENTS
Corned beef brisket (about 3 pounds) Note: If your 
brisket comes with a package of pickling spices, this 
recipe does not use it. 
3 to 4 shallots, peeled, halved if large, or 1 larg e red or 
sweet onion, peeled and cut into crescents or chunks
1 teaspoon black peppercorns
1 to 2 large sprigs fresh thyme or 1 teaspoon dried thyme
¼ teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg or ¼ teaspoon plus 
1 to 2 extra pinches of ground nutmeg
two 12-ounce bottles or cans of beer (preferably a lager, 
which is crisper and less fruity than ale) 
3 to 4 medium turnips (about 1 ½ pounds), peeled and 
cut into large chunks
4 to 5 medium yellow potatoes (about 1 ½ pounds), cut 
into large chunksDRESSING/GRAVY (Optional) 
1 tablespoon cornstarch mixed with 1 tablespoon  
cold water for each cup of cooking liquid 
OR 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, whisked with 
2 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour for each cup of 
cooking liquid
To Make the Corned Beef
1. Rinse the corned beef and place it fat side up in 
a large (5 to 6 ½ quart) slow cooker. Place the 
shallots or onion around the meat, and add the 
peppercorns, thyme, and nutmeg. Pour the beer 
over the meat, plus enough water as needed to 
just cover the meat. Cook on high for 4 ½ to 5½ 
hours or 8 to10 hours on low. 
2. Add the turnips and potatoes when about 1 hour 
is left on the cooking time on high or 1 ½ to 2½ 
hours is left if cooking on low. 
To Make the Dressing/Gravy
The cooking liquid is light and aromatic. Strain it 
through a small strainer, taste, and use on the side 
as-is if it suits you. For a slightly more syrupy and 
less aromatic dressing, strain 1 cup of the liquid, 
add 1 tablespoon cornstarch mixed with 1 table-
spoon of cold water, and stir the mixture in a small 
pot on medium heat until it thickens slightly. For 
a rich, thicker gravy, melt 2 tablespoons butter in 
a small pot, and let it foam, then brown slightly. 
When the foam dies down, add 2 tablespoons of 
flour and whisk the mixture, cooking the flour on 
medium-low about 2 minutes. Slowly add 1 cup of 
the strained liquid, whisking constantly, and cook 
until it thickens to your satisfaction.Vegetables
Original & Adapted Recipes | 95Cauliflower Florets  
Two Ways
Adapted from “To dress Cauliﬂowers,” Hannah Glasse, 
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 4 to 6
/T_his presentation of boiled and fried florets 
turns cauli flower into party food. With only salt 
and pepper as flavoring, the flavor of the vege-
table is either pristine or plain, depending on 
your view of the merits of cauli flower. 
INGREDIENTS
1 head of cauliﬂower
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon olive oil
½ tablespoon all-purpose ﬂour1. Core the cauli flower by cutting out the  
thick stem on the underside and removing it  
as a wedge.
2. Cut the head into large florets, about 1 ½ to  
3 inches.
3. Put the florets into a pot of boiling water, bring 
the water back to a boil, and boil just for a few 
minutes until you can pierce the floret stems 
with a fork. 
4. Immediately drain the florets using a colander 
and cut half of them into smaller pieces.
5. In a heavy, medium-sized pan on medium heat, 
melt the butter and heat the oil with 1 table-
spoon of water. Once the butter is completely 
melted, add the flour and stir gently. The mixture 
will bubble. Add the smaller florets and cook 
over medium heat for 7 to 10 minutes, turning 
occasionally, until all of the florets are coated 
with the butter/oil mixture and browning nicely. 
6. Serve on a platter with the browned florets in the 
middle, surrounded by the larger boiled florets. 96 | The Hamilton CookbookDutch-Style Red Cabbage
Adapted from “Red cabbage dressed after the Dutch 
way, good for a cold in the breast,” Hannah Glasse,  
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 6 to 8
/T_his ever-so-slightly tart red cabbage goes well 
with a hearty plain beef or chicken main course. 
It keeps well refrigerated and can be eaten cold 
as a side dish (reminiscent of sauerkraut) with 
sandwiches. To provide a more complex flavor, 
add a peeled and finely chopped apple during 
the cooking. 
INGREDIENTS
1 small-medium head of cabbage (2 to 3 pounds),  
hard outer leaves removed, cored, and cut  
into shreds
2 tablespoons oil 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons cider or sherry vinegar, plus an extra 
splash (to reduce the cabbage odor as it cooks)
1 onion, peeled and ﬁnely diced
¼ teaspoon or more kosher or sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper1. Put the cabbage into a pot and cover with boiling 
water and a splash of the vinegar. Cook the cab-
bage for 5 minutes, then drain using a colander 
and run cold water over the cabbage, pressing 
out any excess water. 
2. Heat the oil, butter, and vinegar in the pot, along 
with the onion, salt, pepper, and ¾ cup water.
3. Return the cabbage to the pot, stirring the onion 
and liquid into the cabbage. Simmer the mixture 
on low heat until the liquid has almost com-
pletely evaporated.Salad
100  | The Hamilton CookbookSalamagundy Salad
Adapted from “To make Salamagundy,” Hannah Glasse, 
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 4 to 6 as a lunch or a side at dinner
/T_his recipe is a layered version of what we might 
call a chopped salad today. Each ingredient is 
in a separate layer, beginning with meat on the 
bottom and ending with salad greens on top.  
To serve, just dive in with serving implements 
and the salad mixes together on the plate or in 
the bowl. I used a large, straight-sided sou fflé 
dish; it would also look lovely in a large glass 
bowl. /T_he name “salamgundy” or “salamagundi” 
comes from the French word salmigondis , 
meaning a disparate collection of people or 
things. In old French cooking, a salmigondis  was 
a mélange of di fferent meats, reheated together 
in a sauce. 
SALAD INGREDIENTS
1 roasted chicken, cut or shredded into bite-sized 
pieces
6 hard-boiled eggs, whites and yolks minced separately
2 to 4 ounces (1 to 2 small tins) anchovies, minced
4 to 6 lemons, juiced and pulp removed and chopped 
(reserve the juice for dressing) 
⅔ cup (about 4 to 6 ounces) minced sweet pickle chips
3 to 6 ounces sorrel, kale, or arugula, chopped or sliced 
into ribbons
6 ounces spinach, preferably baby spinach, choppedSALAD DRESSING
6 ounces lemon juice (reserved juice from lemons  
used in salad)
6 ounces extra-virgin olive oil
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
½ teaspoon kosher or coarse sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper
To Make the Salad
1. Place the pieces of chicken in a layer at the 
bottom of a large bowl or dish. 
2. Add the rest of the ingredients in the order listed 
(minced egg yolks, then the egg whites, ancho-
vies, lemon pulp, pickles, and greens). If using 
kale, gently massage the leaves and cut o ff the 
thick ribs before rolling the leaves and chopping 
or slicing them. If the spinach has heavy stems, 
remove those before chopping the spinach 
leaves.
To Make the Dressing
1. Whisk the ingredients together or shake them 
in a covered jar until the mixture has emulsi fied 
(the oil is suspended in the lemon juice and the 
mixture is a uniform yellow color). 
2. Pour about half of the dressing over the top of 
the salad just before serving and serve the rest in 
a small pitcher for those who want extra.Sweets
104  | The Hamilton CookbookApple Pie
Adapted from “To Make an Apple Pye,” Hannah Glasse, 
The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Serves 8 to 10 (one large, deep dish 9-inch pie)
/T_his pie should be served warm, in order to 
make its crust flaky. If serving after it cools, 
re-warm the pie at 325°F until the crust is warm 
to the touch. A mix of tart and sweet apples 
works nicely, e.g., Granny Smith, Red or Yellow 
Delicious, and Honeycrisp.
INGREDIENTS
1 recipe of pu ff pastry (see page 112), store-bought  
puff pastry, or another pie dough recipe, enough  
for 2 crusts
4 pounds apples (about 6 large) of various types that 
hold their shape when cooked, cored, peeled, and 
quartered, reserving the peels and cores
1 lemon, rind grated and then squeezed to yield  
2 teaspoons juice
¾ cup granulated sugar, plus more to taste
¼ teaspoon ground mace
½ teaspoon ground cloves
2 tablespoons cornstarch
OPTIONAL 
2 to 3 tablespoons milk
1½ teaspoons to 1 tablespoon demerara sugar1. Divide the pastry dough in half. Place half back 
in the refrigerator. Roll out (or unwrap if store-
bought) the second half and place into a 9-inch 
deep dish pie pan. Cover the pastry with plastic 
wrap and refrigerate while preparing the apples. 
2. Cut each apple quarter into slices and put the 
apple slices into a bowl with the lemon rind, 
lemon juice, mace, cloves, sugar, and cornstarch. 
Mix until combined, and set aside.
3. Put the apple peels, cores, and 1 to 1 ¼ cups 
water in a small pot. Boil the mixture until the 
water reduces to slightly more than ¼ cup. 
Remove from the heat. 
4. Take the pie plate lined with crust out of the 
refrigerator. Add the sliced apple mixture, and 
pour the slightly thickened liquid from the boiled 
peels and cores over the pie. 
5. Refrigerate the filled pie while preheating the 
oven to 425°F.
6. Once the oven is preheated, roll out (or unwrap) 
the reserved half of the pastry. Take the filled pie 
out of the refrigerator, place the rolled-out pastry 
on top, and crimp the bottom and top crusts 
together. If desired, brush the top with milk and 
dust with sugar. Use a sharp knife to cut about 
six vents in the top crust. 
7. Place the pie on a baking sheet (to catch any 
drips) and bake 15 minutes. Lower the tempera-
ture to 375°F and continue baking about 50 to 
60 minutes more, until the top is nicely browned 
and the apple juices are bubbling. If the top 
browns too quickly, loosely place a piece of foil 
on top of the pie until the pie is done baking.
8. Let the warm pie cool before slicing.106  | The Hamilton CookbookChocolate Pu ffs 
Adapted from “Chocolate Pu ffs,” Richard Briggs,  
The New Art of Cookery.
Makes about 2 dozen
/T_hese tiny sweets are a cross between cookies 
and candy. /T_hey are crisp, intensely chocolatey, 
and addictive. 
INGREDIENTS
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons superﬁne sugar
¼ cup plus 1 ¼ tablespoons unsweetened cocoa, 
preferably Dutch processed
1 egg white 
pinch of cream of tartar, optional1. Preheat the oven to 225°F. Set aside two parch-
ment-lined cookie sheets.
2. In a medium-small bowl, whisk together the 
sugar and cocoa until they are a uniform color. 
Set the mixture aside. 
3. With a hand beater, stand mixer, or clean whisk, 
whip the egg white until it is very frothy and 
beginning to sti ffen. (When using a hand or 
stand mixer to whip egg whites, start at a low 
speed and slowly raise the speed to medium. Do 
not use the higher speeds because egg whites 
whipped that way are less stable.) If desired, add 
a pinch of cream of tartar to help the egg white 
froth and sti ffen. Once the egg white reaches 
the soft peak stage, slowly add the sugar/cocoa 
mixture while continuing to beat the egg white. 
The result should be a thick paste. 
4. Wet your hands slightly and form the batter into 
small coins about ¾-inch diameter. Place them 
on the parchment-lined cookie sheets and bake 
1¼ to 1½ hours. 
5. Store the cookies in a tightly covered container. Original & Adapted Recipes | 109Gingerbread Cake
Adapted from “Soft Ginger Bread,” Mrs. Robert Gilmor ’s 
recipe, Maude A. Bomberger, Colonial Recipes.  
Serves 8 to 10 (one 9-inch round cake, 
about 2-inches tall)
/T_h is moist, rich cake is fl avorful without being 
overwhelming. For an easy decorative fi nish, 
dust the top with confectioners sugar. Alterna-
tively, mix 1 to 2 cups of confectioners sugar 
with a few drops of lemon juice, water, or milk to 
and drizzle that glaze over the top, letting it run 
down the sides of the cake. /T_h is recipe propor-
tion is cut in half from the original, which would 
have made an enormous cake.
INGREDIENTS
3 cups all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons ground ginger
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon baking soda
16 tablespoons (8 ounces or 2 sticks) unsalted butter, 
at room temperature
¾ cup packed light brown sugar
½ cup granulated sugar
boiling water
1 cup unsulphured molasses
Zest from ½ lemon (about 1 teaspoon zest)
2 large eggs at room temperature, lightly beaten1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Spray or butter a 
9-inch round pan with 2-inch sides. Put parch-
ment or foil on the bottom and spray again, then 
put a ring of foil around the sides of the pan and 
spray or butter the foil. 
2. Whisk together the fl our, ginger, cinnamon, 
allspice, and baking soda in a bowl. Set aside.
3. Cream the butter and the sugars. If using a 
stand or hand mixer, use medium speed for at 
least 3 minutes until the butter and sugars are 
completely combined and whipped until light 
and airy.
4. Add ½ cup boiling water to the molasses and 
stir the mixture until completely combined. 
Add the lemon zest. 
5. Th e creamed butter and sugars will be the “base” 
of the batter. Th e dry mixture ( fl our/spices/
baking soda), the molasses/water mixture, and 
the eggs are added as follows: add approximately 
half of the fl our mixture in three portions to the 
creamed butter and sugars, alternately with the 
molasses in two portions, beginning and ending 
with the fl our mixture. (No need to be precise in 
measuring.) Once that mixture is well combined, 
add the second half of the fl our mixture with the 
eggs, with the fl our mixture in three portions and 
the eggs in two. Mix gently until well combined. 
6. Spoon the sti ff  batter into the prepared cake pan. 
Using a knife or spatula, smooth the batter out, 
and bake for 45 to 60 minutes, until a cake tester 
inserted in the middle comes out clean. Let the 
cake rest in its pan for 10 minutes, then invert it 
onto a wire rack and cool completely.
7. Well wrapped, this cake will stay moist at room 
temperature for several days. 
110  | The Hamilton CookbookVanilla Ice Cream
Adapted from Thomas Jefferson’s handwritten notes.
Makes 1 quart
/T_his version makes half as much as Je fferson’s 
recipe and requires an ice cream maker. I added 
vanilla and a bit of salt, which are not part of 
Jefferson’s recipe, but the proportions of cream, 
egg yolks, and sugar are those he prescribed.  
I generally used the method recommended by 
one of my favorite food websites, Serious Eats , to 
create the custard. /T_he result is rich and creamy.
INGREDIENTS
3 large eggs, yolks only  
(reserve whites for another dish) 
¾ cup granulated sugar
1 quart (4 cups) heavy cream
1½ to 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
½ teaspoon kosher or sea salt1. In a medium-sized heavy pot, whisk the egg 
yolks and sugar together about 2 minutes, until 
they form a thickened, light-colored mixture that 
makes a ribbon when you lift the whisk. Be sure 
to gather all of the ingredients from the edges of 
the pot as you whisk. 
2. Slowly pour in the cream, whisking as you add 
it, until the egg yolks, sugar, and cream are well 
combined. 
3. Using a wooden spoon, heat the mixture over 
medium-low heat, stirring frequently in a cir-
cular motion that scrapes the bottom of the pot 
and around the sides. Cook the mixture to turn 
it into a custard. To test whether it is at that cus-
tard stage, use a thermometer; at custard stage, 
the mixture will be around 170°F, which is hot 
but well below a simmer. Or, coat the wooden 
spoon and run your finger across the back; if 
your finger leaves a clean line, the mixture is 
ready. This process may take as long as 20 to  
30 minutes. It’s better to keep the heat on the  
low side and take longer than to scorch the 
bottom of the pot or overcook the mixture. 
4. Take the pot o ff the heat, add the vanilla extract 
and salt, and stir to combine. Then strain the 
custard into a heatproof bowl and refrigerate it at 
least until it is well chilled, preferably overnight . 
5. Once the mixture is completely chilled, follow 
manufacturer’s directions for the ice cream 
maker, churning the ice cream until it looks  
close to the consistency of soft serve. A spoon  
or spatula gently scraped along the top should 
leave a well-de fined ridge.
6. Chill the ice cream in a plastic container until its 
consistency is “scoopable. ” 112  | The Hamilton CookbookPuff Pastry
Adapted from “Pu ff Paste,” Hannah Glasse, The Art of 
Cookery Made Plain and Easy.
Makes enough for 1 double-crust deep dish pie 
and 1 open-faced pie, plus a bit extra
/T_his adaptation halves Hannah Glasse’s recipe 
and updates the ingredient references, but 
generally follows her technique. She used pu ff 
pastry in pies (including the apple pie in this 
book) where we modern cooks would probably 
use simpler pie dough recipes. Served warm, this 
crust is simply heavenly; buttery and flaky as 
you cut through to the pie filling. 
INGREDIENTS
3⅓ cups all-purpose ﬂour, plus more to ﬂour the 
surface of your work area
¼ teaspoon salt, preferably ﬁne sea salt 
24 tablespoons ( ¾ pound or 3 sticks) unsalted butter, 
well chilled1. Whisk the salt into the flour. Then cut 8 table-
spoons (¼ pound or 1 stick) butter into small 
pieces and mix it into the flour by hand, with a 
pastry cutter or knives, or with a food processor. 
Do not overmix. 
2. Add ½ cup or more of ice water by tablespoons 
or in a thin stream, combining it with the flour 
and butter, just until the dough begins to hold 
together. 
3. Dump the dough onto a silicone mat or other 
pastry-friendly surface and form it into a ball. 
Cover the ball in plastic wrap; refrigerate it  
for 1 hour.
4. After the dough has chilled, roll it into a rect-
angle on a lightly floured surface, add dots of 
slightly chilled butter on top, and fold it into 
thirds. Repeat the process 9 or 10 times using  
up the remaining 16 tablespoons ( ½ pound or  
2 sticks) of butter as dots on top of the dough  
in the process. 
5. The dough is now ready to be rolled out for the 
apple or other pie. Freeze any remaining dough 
tightly wrapped in plastic.Beverages
116  | The Hamilton CookbookHot Chocolate
Adapted from “To make Chocolate,” Elizabeth Ra ffald, 
The Experienced English House-Keeper.
Serves 1
/T_his dairy-free hot chocolate is rich and quite 
satisfying. To scale it up for multiple servings, 
simply use a larger pot and increase the water 
and cocoa in proportion. 
INGREDIENTS
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa,  
preferably Dutch processed 
2 tablespoons sugar1. Put the cocoa in a small pot. 
2. Pour ¾ cup boiling water over the cocoa and 
whisk the mixture until the cocoa is completely 
dissolved. Add the sugar and bring the mixture 
to a boil. Whisk it again and let the mixture sit at 
least 1 to 2 hours or overnight. 
3. After the resting period, whisk the mixture, bring 
it back to a boil and boil for 2 minutes, then 
whisk it again until foam develops on the top. 
4. Serve immediately.Original & Adapted Recipes | 119Lemon Syllabub
Adapted from “To make Lemon Syllabubs a Second 
Way,” Elizabeth Ra ffald, The Experienced English 
House-Keeper.
Serves 2
/T_his simple whipped syllabub is an elegant 
drink/dessert. Its creamy froth rises to the top 
of a glass, leaving a refreshing lemony wine on 
the bottom. Although it takes only minutes to 
prepare, allow several hours between prepa-
ration and serving so that the froth and liquid 
have time to separate. Use glasses wide enough 
to allow a spoon for eating the topping, which 
is similar to a lemon mousse. Select a white 
wine variety based on how sweet you want the 
syllabub to be. (Keep in mind that the topping 
resembles lemon mousse.) Using a dry white 
such as a Sauvignon Blanc or Pinot Grigio will 
make the syllabub a bit tart, while a sweeter 
white, such as a Chenin Blanc or a Reisling, 
will make the syllabub taste more like a sweet 
dessert.INGREDIENTS
1 lemon, cut in half, with rind grated from half  
and juice from one or both halves for a total  
of ¼ cup juice
½ cup granulated sugar
1 cup white wine
1 cup heavy cream
1. Rub the grated lemon rind into the sugar with 
your fingers until they are well combined. Mix 
the rind, sugar, lemon juice, and the wine.
2. Add the cream and whisk the mixture until it 
froths. Gently pour it into two glasses. Let them 
stand on a counter for about 2 hours, then refrig-
erate until serving. As the glasses sit, the froth 
will rise, leaving the lemony wine on the bottom 
of the glasses. 120  | The Hamilton CookbookFresh Strawberry Water
Adapted from “Fresh Strawberry Water,” Frederic Nutt, 
The Complete Confectioner.
Serves 2 to 3
/T_his refreshing fruit water is easily made with 
a blender and a colander or strainer. /T_he same 
technique can be used for a variety of berry 
fruit waters. /T_he measurement of strawberries 
contained in the original recipe, “one pottle, ”  
is not exact. Pottles were conical baskets in 
which strawberries were sold. At one point a 
pottle was the equivalent of a quart (roughly  
1½ pounds), but later it was half that (a pint.)  
I used a measurement in-between. Keep in  
mind that the amount of sugar may have to  
be adjusted depending on the sweetness of  
your berries.INGREDIENTS
16 ounces fresh strawberries, hulled and  
coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons confectioners (powdered) sugar
Juice of 1 lemon (about ¼ cup)
Garnishes such as a lemon slice or a reserved 
strawberry, optional
1. Mash the strawberries into a pulp using a 
blender or potato masher. Strain the juice into 
a bowl or measuring cup by pressing the pulp 
through a strainer or colander.
2. Mix the confectioners sugar and lemon juice into 
the strawberry juice. 
3. Fill 1 large glass or 2 to 3 smaller ones with ice, 
add the juice, and top with a few splashes of 
water. (Use no more than ½ to ¾ cup of water 
for the 1 to 3 glasses.) Garnish, if desired, with 
lemon slices or strawberries. Endnotes  | 123VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (LIQUID)
US STANDARDUS STANDARD 
(OUNCES)METRIC  
(APPROX)
2 tablespoons 1 ﬂ. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 ﬂ. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 ﬂ. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 ﬂ. oz. 240 mL
1 ½ cups 12 ﬂ. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 ﬂ. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 ﬂ. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 ﬂ. oz. 4 L
 
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (DRY)
US STANDARD METRIC (APPROX)
⅛ teaspoon 0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
¾ teaspoon 4 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
⅓ cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
⅔ cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 LOVEN TEMPERATURES
FAHRENHEIT (F)CELSIUS (C) 
(APPROXIMATE)
250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 165°C
350°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°CMeasurement Conversions
STANDARD CUP EQUIVALENTS
STANDARD  
CUPFLOURS GRAINS GRANULARSLIQUID  
SOLIDSLIQUIDS
1 cup 140g 150g 190g 200g 240ml
¾ cup 105g 113g 143g 150g 180ml
⅔ cup 93g 100g 125g 133g 160ml
½ cup 70g 75g 95g 100g 120ml
⅓ cup 47g 50g 63g 67g 80ml
¼ cup 35g 38g 48g 50g 60ml
⅛ cup 18g 19g 24g 25g 30mlWEIGHT EQUIVALENTS
US STANDARD METRIC (APPROX)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 oz or 1 lb 455 g124  | The Hamilton CookbookBibliography of  
Original Recipes 
The recipes are listed in the order they appear, with the 
name of the original recipe in quotes and the name of 
the adapted recipe in italics . The citation is to the book 
(including edition and page), or in the case of the ice 
cream recipe, the webpage, where the original recipe 
appears.
Breakfast & Breads
Bread Pudding 
Original title: “ A Bread Pudding” 
Adaptation: Bread Pudding 
Amelia Simmons, American Cookery , or the art of 
dressing viands, fish, poultry, and vegetables: and the 
best modes of making pastes, pu ffs, pies, tarts, puddings, 
custards, and preserves: and all kinds of cakes, from the 
imperial plumb to plain cake, adapted to this country 
and all grades of life. (Hartford: Hudson & Goodwin for 
the Author, 1796), 26. Bitting Collection, Rare Book and 
Special Collections Division of the Library of Congress, 
Washington, DC.
English Rabbit 
Original title: “To make an English Rabbit” 
Adaptation: Toaster Oven English Rabbit
Hannah Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery, Made Plain and Easy; 
Which far exceed any /T_hing of the Kind ever yet published.  
(London: The author, first published pseudonymously 
(“By a lady”), 1747), 190. Bitting Collection, Rare Book and 
Special Collections Division of the Library of Congress, 
Washington, DC. Johnny or Hoe Cakes
Original title: “Johny Cake, or Hoe Cake”
Adaptation: Johnny or Hoe Cakes
Simmons, American Cookery , 34. 
Soups
Split Pea Soup
Original title: “ Another Green Peas Soup”
Adaptation: Split Pea Soup
Richard Briggs, /T_he English Art of Cookery , According 
to the Present Practice: being a Complete Guide to all 
Housekeepers on a Plan Entirely New, Consisting of 
Thirty-eight Chapters. (London: Printed for G.G. and J. 
Robinson, 1794), 28. Elizabeth Robins Pennell Collection, 
Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library 
of Congress, Washington, DC.
West Indian Pepper Pot Soup
Original title: “ A West-India Pepper Pot”
Adaptation: West Indian Pepper Pot Soup
Briggs, /T_he English Art of Cookery , 34–35.
Fish & Seafood
Baked Whole White fish
Original title: “To bake a Turbot”
Adaptation: Baked Whole White fish
Hannah Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery, Made Plain and Easy; 
Which far exceed any /T_hing of the Kind ever yet published. 
(Fredricksburg, Printed by Cottom and Stewart, 1805), 
47. Bitting Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections 
Division of the Library of Congress, Washington, DC. Bibliography of Original Recipes   | 125Scalloped Oysters
Original title: “To make Scollops of Oysters”
Adaptation: Scalloped Oysters
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1805 ed., 56.
Meats
Beef à la Mode 
Original title: “Beef à la Mode in Pieces”
Adaptation: Beef à la Mode
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1747 ed., 36.
Fried Sausages and Apples
Original title: “Fried Sausages”
Adaptation: Fried Sausages and Apples
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1805 ed., 90.
Lamb Stew
Original title: “ A Harrico of Mutton”
Adaptation: Lamb Stew
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1747 ed., 45.
Slow Cooker Corned Beef
Original title: “To Stew Brisket of Beef ”
Adaptation: Slow Cooker Corned Beef
Richard Briggs, /T_he New Art of Cookery , According to the 
Present Practice: being a Complete Guide to all House-
keepers on a Plan Entirely New, Consisting of Thirty-eight 
Chapters. (Philadelphia: Printed for W. Spotswood, R. 
Campbell, and E. Johnson. 1792), 81. Bitting Collection, 
Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library 
of Congress, Washington, DC. Vegetables
Cauliflower Florets Two Ways
Original title: “To dress Cauli flowers”
Adaptation: Cauliflower Florets Two Ways
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1805 ed., 34.
Dutch-Style Red Cabbage 
Original title: “Red cabbage dressed after the Dutch way, 
good for a cold in the breast”
Adaptation: Dutch-Style Red Cabbage
Hannah Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery, Made Plain and Easy; 
Which far exceed any /T_hing of the Kind ever yet published.  
(London: printed for A. Millar, J. and R. Tonson,  
W . Strahan, T. Caslon, Bl. Law and A. Hamilton, 176 3), 343. 
Pennell Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections 
Division of the Library of Congress, Washington, DC. 
Salad
Salamagundy Salad
Original title: “To make Salamagundy”
Adaptation: Salamagundy Salad
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1805 ed., 93.
Sweets
Apple Pie
Original title: “To make an Apple Pye”
Adaptation: Apple Pie
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1747 ed., 225.
Chocolate Pu ﬀs
Original title: “Chocolate Pu ffs”
Adaptation: Chocolate Pu ffs
Briggs, /T_he New Art of Cookery , 367.126  | The Hamilton CookbookGingerbread Cake
Original title: “Soft Ginger Bread”
Adaptation: Gingerbread Cake
Maude A. Bomberger, Colonial Recipes from Old Virginia 
and Maryland Manors, with Numerous Legends and Tra-
ditions Interwoven  (New York and Washington: The Neale 
Publishing Company, 1907), 56. Bitting Collection, Rare 
Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of 
Congress, Washington, DC. 
Vanilla Ice Cream
Original title: “Ice Cream”
Adaptation: Vanilla Ice Cream
Handwritten recipe in the holograph collection of the 
Library of Congress, Washington, DC.  
www.loc.gov/exhibits/treasures/images/uc004810.jpg. 
Accessed April 26, 2017. www.loc.gov/exhibits/treasures/
tri034.html 
Puﬀ Pastry
Original title: “Pu ff Paste”
Adaptation: Puff Pastry
Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery , 1747 ed., 145.Beverages
Hot Chocolate
Original title: “To make Chocolate”
Adaptation: Hot Chocolate
Elizabeth Ra ffald, /T_he Experienced English House-keeper , 
for the Use and Ease of Ladies, House-keepers, Cooks  
& C. (Manchester, Printed by J. Haroup for the Author, 
1769), page 295.
Lemon Syllabub
Original title: “To make Lemon Syllabubs a Second Way”
Adaptation: Lemon Syllabub
Raffald, /T_he Experienced English House-keeper,  page 184
Strawberry Water
Original title: “Fresh Strawberry Water”
Adaptation: Strawberry Water
Frederick Nutt, /T_he Complete Confectioner ; or The Whole 
Art of Confectionary; Forming a Ready Assistant to all 
Genteel Families; giving Them a Perfect Knowledge of 
Confectionary with Instructions, Neatly Engraved on Ten 
Copper-Plates, How to Decorate a Table with Taste and 
Elegance without the Expense or Assistance of a Confec-
tioner. (London, Printed for the Author, 1790), 109. Bitting 
Collection, Rare Book and Special Collections Division of 
the Library of Congress, Washington, DC. Endnotes  | 127Endnotes 
Introduction
  1 Genevieve Foster, George Washington’s World  (New 
York: Scribner. 1941).
Chapter 1
  2 For information on Hamilton’s life, I consulted a 
number of sources. Ron Chernow’s excellent and 
exhaustive biography, Alexander Hamilton , and Jeff 
Wilser’s breezier and fun book, Alexander Hamilton’s 
Guide to Life  were both invaluable. In addition,  
if you are interested in the chronology of his life, 
see www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/hamilton/timeline/
timeline2.html.
  3 There is disagreement about when Alexander 
Hamilton was born, 1755 or 1757. I have accepted the 
earlier date, the one adopted by Ron Chernow in his 
definitive biography, Alexander Hamilton .
  4 Ankeet Ball, Ambition and Bondage: An Inquiry 
on Alexander Hamilton and Slavery, quoting from 
Syrett, Harold and Jacob E. Cooke, eds. /T_he Papers 
of Hamilton . Vol 2. (New York: Columbia University 
Press, 1961-87), footnote 39, accessed April 17, 
2017. columbiaandslavery.columbia.edu/content/
ambition-bondage-inquiry-alexander-hamilton-and 
-slavery.
  5 Hamilton to James McHenry, 7 January, 1799, in 
/T_he Hamilton Papers , Founders Online, accessed 
April 18, 2017, founders.archives.gov/documents/
Hamilton/01-22-02-0223.
Chapter 2
  6 Kwasi, Konadu, “Slavery in the Danish Carribean, ” 
accessed April 17, 2017, www.afropedea.org/slavery 
-in-the-danish-caribbean.  7 William F. Cissel, “ Alexander Hamilton: The West 
Indian ‘Founding Father’, ” July 2004, 26 at footnote 44, 
accessed April 17, 2017, www.virginislandspace.org/
Division%20of%20Libraries/cisselpaper.pdf.
  8 James Oliver Horton, “ Alexander Hamilton: Slavery 
and Race in a Revolutionary Generation, ” New 
York Journal of American History , Issue 3(Spring 
2004), 17, accessed April 17, 2017, through www.
alexanderhamiltonexhibition.org/about/teachers 
.html at www.alexanderhamiltonexhibition.org/
about/Horton%20-%20Hamiltsvery_Race.pdf.
  9 James T. Lemon, “Colonial Life in the Eighteenth 
Century, ” 121, accessed April 17, 2017. www.asdk12.o rg 
/staff/bivins_rick/HOMEWORK/230028_Colonial 
Life.pdf.
10 Ron Chernow, Alexander Hamilton  (New York, The 
Penguin Press), page 147.
11 US Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, 
Historical Statistics of the United States Colonial Times 
to 1970, Bicentennial Edition, volume 1 (Washington 
DC: Government Printing O ffice, 1975), 8, accessed 
April 17, 2017.  fraser.stlouisfed.org/ files/docs/
publications/histstatus/hstat1970_cen_1975_v1.pdf 
13 US Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, 
Population in the Colonial and Continental Periods , 
11, accessed April 17, 2017, www2.census.gov/prod2/
decennial/documents/00165897ch01.pdf.
14 US Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census, 
Urban, Urbanized Area, Urban Cluster, and Rural 
Population 2000 and 2010: United States , accessed 
April 17, 2017, www.census.gov/geo/reference/ua/
urban-rural-2010.html.
15 The Largest US Cities: Cities Ranked 1 to 100 and 
Cities Ranked 101 to 200, accessed April 17, 2017, 
www.citymayors.com/gratis/uscities_100.html.
16 Amy Chin, Brett Palfreyman, Valerie Paley. Windows 
on the City, Looking out at Gracie’s New York: A Curated 
Reinstallation of Gracie Mansion’s O fficial Rooms on the 128  | The Hamilton Cookbook35th Anniversary of the Gracie Mansion Conservancy  
(October 2015), 6, accessed April 17, 2017, www1.nyc.
gov/assets/gracie/downloads/pdf/gmc_brochure.pdf.
17 Pauline Maier, Boston and New York in the Eighteenth 
Century , 182, Proceedings of the American 
Antiquarian Society, 91 (1981):177-195, 182, accessed 
April 17, 2017, www.americanantiquarian.org/
proceedings/44517672.pdf.
18 Chin, Palfreyman, and Paley, Windows on the City , 6, 
www1.nyc.gov/assets/gracie/downloads/pdf/gmc_
brochure.pdf.
19 New York Historical Society, History of Slavery in New 
York, accessed April 17, 2017, www.slaveryinnewyork.
org/history.htm.
20 Maier, Boston and New York , 192, citing Charles 
Francis Adams, ed., /T_he Works of John Adams , www.
americanantiquarian.org/proceedings/44517672.pdf.
21 Frank Paul Mann, “ The British Occupation of 
Southern New York during the American Revolution 
and the Failure to Restore Civilian Government” (PhD 
diss., Syracuse University, 2013), accessed April 17, 
2017,  surface.syr.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article 
=1099&context=hst_etd.
22 Edwin G. Burrows, “ The Prisoners of New York” 
(paper presented at symposium, “ The American 
Revolution on Long Island and in New York City, ” 
Stony Brook University, October 4, 2010, accessed on 
April 17, 2017, lihj.cc.stonybrook.edu/2012/articles/
the-prisoners-of-new-york/.
Chapter 3
23 Katherine Menz, “Historic Furnishings Report: 
Hamilton Grange National Monument, ” (1986), 7, 
Hamilton Grange National Memorial , accessed April 
18, 2017, www.nps.gov/hagr/learn/historyculture/
upload/Historic-Furnishings-Report.pdf.
24 Danielle Funiciello, Schuyler Mansion Historic Site, 
e-mail message to author, February 3, 2017.25 Nancy E. Richards, “ The City Home of Benjamin Chew, 
Sr., and his Family: A Case Study of the Textures of 
Life, ” 13, accessed on April 17, 2017, www.cliveden. org/  
wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Benjamin 
-Chew-townhouse.pdf.
26 Sandra L. Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal America  
(Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press, 2005), 
pages 107–111.
27 Early American Fireplaces and Cooking , accessed 
April 17, 2017, colonial-american-life.blogspot.
com/2009/08/early-american- fireplaces-and-cooking.
html.
28 Sir Benjamin Thompson, Count von Rumford, 
accessed April 17, 2017, www.monticello.org/site/ 
research-and-collections/sir-benjamin-thompson 
-count-von-rumford#_ftnref5.
29 Alfred Mongin and Anne D. Whidden, “Historic 
Structure Report: Hamilton Grange National 
Memorial”, (1980), 33, Hamilton Grange National 
Memorial , accessed April 18, 2017, www.nps.gov/
hagr/learn/historyculture/upload/Historic-Structure 
-Report.pdf.
30 Miller-Cory House Museum and the New Jersey 
Historical Society, Pleasures of Colonial Cooking, 
(New Jersey: New Jersey Historical Society, 1982), 6–7.
31 Early American Fireplaces and Cooking, accessed 
April 17, 2017, colonial-american-life.blogspot.com/ 
2009/08/early-american- fireplaces-and-cooking.html.
32 Alexander Hamilton (Dr.), Itinerarium , (St. Louis, 
Missouri, printed privately, 1774) 99, accessed April 
17, 2017, cdn.loc.gov/service/gdc/lhbtn/02374/ 
02374.pdf.
33 Bill Bryson, “Every Fish Knife Tells a Story: Bill Bryson 
Reveals How the History in Our Homes has Changed 
the Way We Live, ” Daily Mail , July 6, 2010 accessed 
April 17, 2017, www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article 
-1279906/Every- fish-knife-tells-story-BILL-BRYSON-
reveals-history-homes-changed-way-live.html.Endnotes  | 12934 “Ice Creams were Produced, ” accessed April 18, 2017, 
www.monticello.org/site/je fferson/home-activity-0.
35 George Washington’s Household in Philadelphia, 
1790-1792, accessed April 18, 2017, www.ushistory.
org/presidentshouse/history/household.php
36 Germantown’s New Neighborhoods, accessed April 18, 
2017, philadelphianeighborhoods.com/2010/02/03/
germantowns-new-white-house/.
37 Richards, “ The City Home of Benjamin Chew, 
Sr. ” 33-34, www.cliveden.org/wp-content/
uploads/2013/09/Benjamin-Chew-townhouse.pdf.
38 Bulletin of the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, History 
of Wages in the United States, from Colonial Times to 
1928 , (October, 1929),135, accessed April 18, 2017, 
fraser.stlouisfed.org/ files/docs/publications/bls/
bls_0604_1934.pdf.
39 Richards, “ The City Home of Benjamin Chew, Sr. ” 33 & 
39, www.cliveden.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/
Benjamin-Chew-townhouse.pdf.
40 Christopher Paul Magra, “ The New England Cod 
Fishing Industry and Maritime Dimensions of 
the American Revolution” (PhD diss., University 
of Pittsburgh, 2006), accessed April 18, 2017, 
d-scholarship.pitt.edu/7982/1/Magra_ETD_1_.pdf.
41 Carson, Rachel, “Fish and Shell fish of the Middle 
Atlantic Coast” (1945), 16. US Fish & Wildlife 
Publications. Paper 3, accessed April 18, 2017,  
digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.
cgi?article=1002&context=usfwspubs.
42 Rachel Carson, “Fish and Shell fish of the South 
Atlantic and Gulf Coasts” (1944), 4. US Fish & 
Wildlife Publications. Paper 19, accessed April 18, 
2017, digitalcommons.unl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.
cgi?article=1018&context=usfwspubs.
43 Andrew F. Smith, “ The Food and Drink of New York, ” 
in Gastropolis , edited by Annie Hauck-Lawson and 
Jonathan Deutsch, 35-42, New York: Columbia 
University Press, 2008.44 Margaret Brown Klapthor, /T_he First Ladies Cookbook , 
(New York: Parents Magazine Press, 1969), vi.
45 Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal America , 69.
46 Elizabeth Ra ffald, /T_he Experienced English 
House-keeper for the Use and Ease of Ladies, House-
keepers, Cooks & c . (Manchester: self-published, 
1769), 319, accessed April 18, 2017, lcweb2.loc.
gov/cgi-bin/displayPhoto.pl?path=/service/rbc/
rbc0001/2013/2013gen60076&topImages=0332r.
jpg&topLinks=0332v.jpg,0332u.tif,0332a.tif,0332.
tif&displayPro file=0.
47 Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal America, 76.
48 Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal America, 71.
Chapter 4
49 Jim Chevallier, “Breakfast in the Eighteenth Century: 
The Unexamined Meal, ” Article on Chez Jim, accessed 
April 18, 2017, chezjim.com/18c/breakfast-18th.
htm#_ednref64.
50 Nina York, “Our Island Still Retains a Few Danish 
Food Traditions, ” St Croix /T_his Week , accessed April 18, 
2017, www.stcroixthisweek.com/articles/our-island 
-still-retains-a-few-danish-food-traditions.html.
51 Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal America , 80–85.
52 Mongin and Whidden, “Historic Structure 
Report: Hamilton Grange National Memorial”, 50, 
accessed April 18, 2017, www.nps.gov/hagr/learn/
historyculture/upload/Historic-Structure-Report.pdf.
53 Danielle Funiciello, Schuyler Mansion Historic Site, 
e-mail message to author, February 3, 2017. 
54 Account with Reinhard Kahmer, October 29, 1791, 
Hamilton Papers, accessed April 18, 2017 founders.
archives.gov/documents/Hamilton/01-09-02-0307.
55 Danielle Funiciello, Schuyler Mansion Historic Site, 
e-mail message to author, February 3, 2017. 
56 Mongin and Whidden, “Historic Structure Report: 
Hamilton Grange National Memorial”, Illustration 130  | The Hamilton Cookbook13, accessed April 18, 2017, www.nps.gov/hagr/learn/
historyculture/upload/Historic-Structure-Report.pdf.
57 Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal America , 161.
58 Smith, “ The Food and Drink of New York, ” Gastropolis , 
page 36.
59 Lila Perl, Slumps, Grunts and Snickerdoodles: What 
Colonial America Ate and Why (New York: Clarion 
Books), 69, 76.
60 Laurie Kamens, “How Alexander Hamilton Did 
Breakfast. ” Extra Crispy , August 10, 2016, accessed 
April 18, 2017, www.extracrispy.com/culture/586/
how-alexander-hamilton-did-breakfast. 
61 Chevallier, “Breakfast in the Eighteenth Century: The 
Unexamined Meal, ” accessed April 18, 2017, chezjim.
com/18c/breakfast-18th.htm#_ednref64.
62 Chernow, Alexander Hamilton , 205, quoting 
Reminiscences of James A. Hamilton.
63 Sandra L. Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal 
America, 148-149.
64 Sandra L. Oliver, Food in Colonial and Federal 
America, 168-169.
65 Jan Whitaker, “From Patrons to Chefs, a History of 
Women in Restaurants, ” Boston Hospitality Review 
(August 21, 2015), accessed April 18, 2017 www.
bu.edu/bhr/2015/08/21/from-patrons-to-chefs-a-
history-of-women-in-restaurants/.
66 Smith, “ The Food and Drink of New York, ” Gastropolis , 
page 44.
67 The Morris-Jumel Mansion described in All /T_hings 
Hamilton: Your Information Portal to Alexander 
Hamilton , accessed April 18, 2017, allthingshamilton.
com/index.php/aph-home/new-york/morris-jumel 
-mansion-ny.68 Brian Levinson, “Morris-Jumel Mansion: Secrets 
of Manhattan’s Oldest Home, in Washington 
Heights” www.amny.com/secrets-of-new-york/
morris-jumel-mansion-secrets-of-manhattan-s-
oldest-home-in-washington-heights-1.11340525.
69 James Gabler, Dine with /T_homas Jefferson and 
Fascinating Guests  (Palm Beach: Bacchus Press Ltd., 
2015), 120–122.
70 Gabler, Dine with /T_homas Jefferson and Fascinating 
Guests , 250-251 footnote10.
71 Charles A. Cerami, Dinner at Mr. Je fferson’s  (Hoboken: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 2008), 130–132.
72 Chernow, Alexander Hamilton , 616.
73 Hannah Glasse, /T_he Art of Cookery Made Plain 
and Easy ; Excelling Anything of the Kind ever yet 
Published. (Alexandria: Cottom and Stewart, 1805).
74 Richard Briggs, /T_he English Art of Cookery , According 
to the Present Practice: Being a Complete Guide to all 
Housekeepers on a Plan Entirely New, Consisting of 28 
Chapters. (London: G.G. & J. Robinson, 1794). 
75 Smith, “ The Food and Drink of New York, ” Gastropolis , 
page 44.
76 Nancy Baggett, “Ice Cream’s Always Gone Over  
Big in Washington” /T_he Washington Post , July 7, 2004; 
Page F06 last accessed April 18, 2017,  
www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/articles/ 
A30711-2004Jul6.html.About the Author | 131About the Author
Laura Kumin is the creator of MotherWouldKnow, a popular food blog, 
and is a Huffi  ngton Post  blogger. She also teaches cooking and food 
history. Laura had a 20-plus year career as a lawyer before turning to 
food-related subjects. After keeping her research skills fi rmly based 
in legal minutiae for decades, she now gets to dig around in more 
fascinating territory. Her own recipe development and blogposts show 
a defi nite preference for desserts, especially chocolate ones, and fun 
snacks and side dishes.
About the Author 
 |131
About the Author
Laura Kumin is the creator of MotherWouldKnow, a popular food blog, 
and is a 
 Huffi  ngton Post
  blogger. She also teaches cooking and food 
 Huffi  ngton Post  blogger. She also teaches cooking and food Huffi  ngton Post
history. Laura had a 20-plus year career as a lawyer before turning to 
food-related subjects. After keeping her research skills fi rmly based 
in legal minutiae for decades, she now gets to dig around in more 
fascinating territory. Her own recipe development and blogposts show 
a defi nite preference for desserts, especially chocolate ones, and fun 
snacks and side dishes.
