In theory, making Top Chef  seems like a simple enough recipe. 
Take about a dozen talented, interesting people willing to give 
up their lives for ﬁ  ve or six weeks. Place in one apartment and 
add a series of cleverly designed tests. Set up cameras and, 
as Bravo’s tagline says, “watch what happens.” 
Obviously, things are just a bit more complicated. In fact, preparing for and managing 
each season is a massive undertaking—one that is run day to day by the strangely calm 
hands of executive producer Shauna Minoprio. Long before the ﬁ  rst burner of each 
season is lit, Minoprio and the rest of the Magical Elves team are hard at work, choosing a city, devising challenges, casting contestants, and scouting locations. 
Next comes building the show’s primary home, the 
Top Chef  kitchen, from scratch. That 
means bringing in electricity, gas lines, running water, and all the other amenities of a 
working kitchen, in addition to those of a working television set: a lighting grid, make-up and dressing rooms, space for as many as eight cameras, and so on. In Season 3, cast-ing C.J. Jacobsen also meant painting another few feet up the wall of the set at the last minute, in order to ﬁ  lm his 6´8˝ frame. 
Near the kitchen is always the so-called “Stew Room,” the broom closet where chefs wait (and wait and wait and wait) for the judges to make their decisions. While in the Stew Room, the chefs have cameras following their every move. The same is true in the chefs’ living space, where they are left little choice but to interact. When chefs enter the competition, they must give up nearly all contact with the outside world. Cell phones, Internet access, music, television, and even most books are prohibited in the house. 
There are practical reasons for all these restrictions: the producers don’t want the chefs 
to have access to outside recipes; if chefs discus s current events on camera it will date 
a show that won’t be aired until many months later; if a camera picks up a song playing on the radio, it can’t be aired without paying for the rights to do so; and there’s always the basic rule that watching people listen to music or read a book just doesn’t make for good television. From a dramatic standpoint, all this isolation—plus the chronic lack of sleep—has the added beneﬁ  t of slowly driving the chefs a little bit crazy. 
“These are grown adults who have great businesses, run their own kitchens, are really 
talented, and suddenly have to ask permission to go pee,” says Minoprio. “That’s pretty 
hard to take.”
The chefs also learn (along with everybody else, including the guest judges) that the 
default mode for television production is: hurry up and wait. Each episode is usually shot in two days—one for the Quickﬁ  re and the next for the Elimination. On the ﬁ  rst day, the 
chefs wake up, rush to get showered and ready, and pile into a van to the kitchen set.
During the challenge, and whenever they’re in the house or Stew Room, the chefs 
are dogged by a swarm of camera crews. Behind the scenes, Minoprio, director of 
Out of the Frying Pan ... photography Paul Starkman, and ﬁ  eld producers keep track of what’s going on and 
whisper instructions on what to shoot into the cameramen’s he adsets. Producers con-
stantly scribble interesting quotes or devel opments in specially designed notebooks that 
will later be sent to the show’s editors. The editors’ task will be to distill a forty-four-
minute show out of some seventy-plus hours of footage.
Unbeknownst to viewers, every dish on Top Chef  actually gets made at least twice: once 
to be tasted and once to be photographed. This technique was learned the hard way dur-
ing Season 1, when dishes were often delivered cold or otherwise degraded after waiting to be photographed. As soon as the buzzer on the challenge is over, the duplicate dishes are whisked away to what is known as the “Food Porn” area, where a man named T-Bone lovingly performs the pans and zooms the audience will later drool over during judging. Needless to say, T-Bone is a good man to make friends with on set, as the food is per-fectly edible once it’s been shot. He’s also the guy with the best inside track on who’s doing well on a challenge and who’s falling ﬂ  at. 
The Quickﬁ  re is usually followed by Padma’s announcement of the Elimination Chal-
lenge. The production then decamps to go shopping or otherwise start preparing for the challenge. After another night in the ﬁ  shbowl known as their house, the chefs have an 
early morning and a long day of high-pressure cooking. Only then does the real ordeal begin: Judges’ Table. Previous page, top to bottom: 
Head Judge Tom Colicchio and the infamous 
Top Chef    knife block; 
Magical Elves executive producers Jane Lipsitz and Dan Cutforth; former contestant and current 
Top Chef culinary producer Lee 
Anne Wong with Judge Ted Allen. This page: The Season 2 cast 
arrives in the kitchen for what will prove to be an eventful season. Opposite, clockwise from top left: Bravo executive producer Dave Serwatka poses with an Asian 
spread; key ingredients from the 
Top Chef   kitchen; Bravo Media 
president Lauren Zalaznick with Padma Lakshmi; contestants from 
Season 3 hard at work; executive 
producer Shauna Minoprio at the Judges’ Table.Of course, every season of Top Chef  has succeeded based 
on the talents of the contestants themselves. To cast the ﬁ  rst 
season, the producers started by putting an ad on Craigslist. 
(Season 1 contestant Miguel Morales stumbled across it while looking for a date in the personals.) The idea, for that season, was to cast a wide cross-section of people in the food industry—not only restaurant professionals, but home cooks, caterers, nutritionists, etc. It quickly became clear that those other professionals just couldn’t keep up with their res-taurant brethren. For subsequent seasons, the casting agents 
focused on those with more experience working on a line. But of course by then they had the luxury of chefs clamoring to be on the show.
For a show focusing on a profession long dominated by straight white men, Top Chef   has 
always been intent on showcasing a more diverse set of contestants. But, as on all Bravo 
shows, whatever their backgrounds or personal lives, contestants for Top Chef  all have 
to conform to only one standard: they need real talent, personality, and passion.
“The people who either can’t articulate why they want to be on the show, or say that they 
‘want to be famous,’ don’t get cast,” Cohen says. “The ones who talk about their food 
and their dreams and how much they love cooking, those are the ones who wind up on 
the show.”
Once an aspiring contestant makes it past the ﬁ  rst round of auditions, he or she is ﬂ  own 
to Los Angeles for ﬁ  nal casting sessions. Secrecy is of the utmost importance to the 
Top Chef  producers, so the contestants aren’t allowed to tell people where they’re going 
or any details of the show. More important, while in the hotel where the meetings take 
place, they must not be allowed to meet or interact with other potential chefs. For that reason, they are kept sequestered in their rooms in what is actually a good preview of what they’ll endure in the 
Top Chef   house, if they make the cut. “It was like the CIA,” says 
Casey Thompson, not  talking about the Culinary Institute of America. “Whenever they’d 
take me out of the room everybody would be on their headsets, ‘OK. I have Casey walk-
ing. Casey walking . . .’ ”
When a great character walks through the door to casting, the team tends to know it. 
Stephen Asprinio, for instance, was such a slam dunk that Cohen barely remembers his audition. On the other hand, they know enough not to try to predict how the cast will ulti-mately interact. Sometimes fate and luck have  a role. Says Cutforth, “We’ve learned that 
we can never predict what’s really going to happen. Better just to put people together and follow along.”Casting a Hit Show
Opposite:  Each season, Top 
Chef ’s producers and casting 
agents meet with hundreds of 
chefs before settling on the perfect mix of personalities and talents. That makes for some 
long days, as evidenced by Andy Cohen’s profuse doodling. Lucky for us, the scribbles offer a peek at what some beloved and not-so-beloved future characters looked like before becoming chefs. 
On Harold Dieterle’s casting 
sheet, Cohen scribbled “big ego.” Betty Fraser scored points because she “brought sand-wiches.” Nobody could claim that Lee Anne Wong didn’t warn them about “temper issues in the kitchen.” 
14    CASTING A HIT SHOWSINK
MICROWAVESPANTRY The 
chefs head here for all 
the basics. It has enough goodies to make even monkﬁ  sh tasty! Even high-level chefs 
use microwaves.STOVEDISHWASHER 
STEW ROOM 
Contestants “stew” in here while the judges deliberate—sometimes for hours.The Kitchen and Pantry
OVENS 
The closely condensed oven area creates trafﬁ  c jams, especially 
during Quickﬁ  res.
16    THE KITCHEN AND PANTRYSINK
REFRIGERATOR REFRIGERATORSTOVE
PREP Each contestant 
gets his or her own prep area, 
complete with a butcher’s block cutting board, basic utensils—spatulas, spoons, whisks, ladles—and a set of cookware, including sauté pans and pots. (Knives, of course, they bring them-selves.) The Floor Plan
For all the exotic locales Top Chef 
visits in the course of a season, 
no location is more important to the contestants than their home base—the 
Top Chef  kitchen and 
pantry. Around the kitchen are ovens, stoves, broilers, capa-cious refrigerators, a deep fryer, a set of sinks, and, yes, micro-waves. The adjacent pantry is carefully stocked with every imaginable item—always ready for contestants to come running.
THE KITCHEN AND PANTRY     17During the “4-Star All Stars 
Reunion,” Ilan spilled Marcel’s 
carefully cubed mangoes out 
of the fridge; his offer to recut them was declined.Hung got much of his reputation 
for rudeness by hurrying through the kitchen with a knife, nearly slicing Casey.18    THE KITCHEN AND PANTRY
Rebuilt in a different city each season, 
the kitchen must serve double duty 
as both a television studio and a func-tional cooking environment. 
Even with room for cameras and lights, things can get 
a little tight in the early episodes of each season. This 
inevitably leads to rising tension and, occasionally, accusations. Funny how each season’s kitchen has featured the same Phantom Oven Turner-Offer.The Top Chef Kitchen
18    THE KITCHEN AND PANTRY20    THE KITCHEN AND PANTRY
Next to the kitchen is the all-important 
Top Chef    pantry, meticulously built by 
production manager Bill Egle, where, 
ideally, contestants should ﬁ  nd every-
thing they need to allow their culinary 
imaginations to take ﬂ  ight. 
That includes ingredients as well as equipment: food 
processors, juicers, mixers, mandolines, sandwich presses, coffee grinders, brining buckets, and so on. “They have it so easy,” says culinary producer Lee Anne 
Wong, who, of course, started as a Season I contestant. 
“Tha t ﬁ rst year, we had something like one set of pots, 
and that was it.”The Top Chef Pantry
20    THE KITCHEN AND PANTRYTHE KITCHEN AND PANTRY     21Pantry ingredients change for each challenge and revealing 
a deﬁ  nitive list might spoil it for future contestants, but 
you can count on a gourmet’s dream selection on the shelves 
pretty much every week, including the following essentials:
Salt and Pepper. Obvious but crucial. Since not all salts are 
created equal, the Pantry features coarse sea salt, ﬁ  ne sea salt, and 
kosher salt, among others.
Extra-Virgin Olive Oil. Next to salt and pepper, this is the staple 
of all staples. No pantry—on TV or otherwise—should be without it.
Stock Pots.  Long-simmered stock is a crucial foundation of nearly 
all cooking.
Sriracha. A Southeast Asian hot sauce that works well with almost 
everything . . . except maybe ice cream. 
Tongs.  If a chef’s most important tool is her hands, then a good set 
of tongs is the ultimate hand extender. 
Vinegar. Balsamic, white, white wine, red wine, sherry, and rice wine 
varieties—just to name a few.
Can Openers.  Their uses are self-explanatory. The mystery is 
why so many Top Chef  contestants can’t ﬁ  nd them when needed. 
(They’re right below the spatulas.)
Chinois.  This ultra-ﬁ  ne sieve—so ﬁ  ne that you need to push things 
through its mesh—is essential to many reﬁ  ned French classics.
Booze. From rum to bourbon, the pantry contains a club-worthy 
bar, good for ﬂ  avoring or taking the edge off a crazy Quickﬁ  re.
Demi-Glace. A gelatinous super-reduction of veal stock often 
thought of as a chef’s best-kept secret. Adds depth to any soup 
or sauce.1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10Top Chef Staples
22    THE KITCHEN AND PANTRYTHE KITCHEN AND PANTRY     23DRIED FRUITS AND NUTS± Hazelnuts± Pine nuts± Cranberries± Mangoes
SWEETENERS± Granulated sugar± Dark brown sugar± Honey± Maple syrup
BAKING STAPLES± Baking powder± All-purpose ﬂ  our± Yeast± Vanilla
GRAINS± Sushi rice± Quinoa± Couscous± Pasta
SPICES± Allspice± Ground ginger± Black sesame seeds± PaprikaLIQUOR± Kahlúa®
± Grand Marnier®
± Dry vermouth± Sherry
DAIRY± Whole milk± Heavy cream± Eggs± Butter
OILS, VINEGARS, CONDIMENTS± Walnut oil± Sesame oil± Asian ﬁ  sh sauce± Tabasco®
PRODUCE± Red onions± Leeks± Carrots± Lemons
FRESH HERBS± Basil± Chives± Cilantro± DillBAKEWARE± Cookie sheet± Mufﬁ  n pan± Springform pan± Ramekin
COOKWARE± Double boiler± Dutch oven± Saucier pan± Sauté pan
ELECTRICS± Meat grinder± Immersion blender± Rice cooker± Sandwich press
TOOLS± Mandoline± Crème brûlée torch± Microplane grater± Mortar and pestle
TABLEWARE± Wine glasses± Appetizer plates± Soup bowls± Chinese spoonsOther items include:
THE KITCHEN AND PANTRY     23You wouldn’t necessarily guess that Judges’ Table would be 
a difﬁ  cult segment of Top Chef  to ﬁ lm. After all, the cooking 
is all done; the winners and losers are often clear; the set is 
simple. Nevertheless, everybody involved agrees it’s one of the most trying parts of each episode.
 The ﬁ rst thing that makes Judges’ Table such a pain is logistics. Many of Top Chef ’s 
Elimination Challenges take place at remote locations and at dinnertime, which means it 
is already late in the evening by the time the production packs up to return to the kitchen set. During Season 1, judging took place wherever the challenge did, but since then, ev-erybody has returned to the kitchen. Then, cameras and lights need to be set and reset for each stage of judging—preliminary deliberations, announcing the winner, questioning the bottom three contestants or losing team, deliberating again, and, ﬁ  nally, announcing 
the loser. With each transition taking at least thirty minutes, it’s no wonder that ﬁ  lming 
Judges’ Table usually runs into the wee hours of the morning. 
 But the biggest reason for the long, drawn-out hours is the seriousness with which the 
judges take their jobs. Even if the winner seems clear, the judges will methodically work their way through each dish, discussing its merits and faults in remarkable detail. Obvi-ously, the goal is to have plenty of footage to edit into the eventual hour-long episode, but there’s also a question of integrity.
 “I just feel like we have a responsibility to the contestants,” says head judge Tom Colic-
chio. “They’re working their asses off in there. We’ve got to get it right.” 
By now, the principal judges—Colicchio, Padma Lakshmi, Gail Simmons, and Ted Allen—
know their roles well. “Tom is the moral center of the show. He judges people fairly but strictly, and he brings an enormous understanding of leadership and technique—what it takes to run a restaurant,” says Allen. “Padma is the chairman of the board and she brings great knowledge of Asian food. Gail has done everything and, working at a maga-zine, she has a vast knowledge of what’s new and happening. As for me, I hope I bring a certain amount of respect for chefs and a passion for food. And hopefully a little humor, too.”
At times, debate gets heated, as in the legendary showdown to determine whether Sam 
Talbot or Ilan Hall would proceed to the Season 2 ﬁ  nale in Hawaii. Colicchio voted for 
Ilan; Lakshmi favored Sam. The battle went on until nearly daybreak before the panel 
ﬁ nally chose Ilan.
Likewise the debate during the ﬁ  nale of Season 3, which started with a dead heat 
between Hung Huynh and Dale Levitski for the 
Top Chef  title. The judges started delib-
erating at 11:30 p.m. and talked on camera until 4 a.m. At that point—since the winner would actually be revealed later, during a live broadcast—the producers turned off the cameras and sent the crew home. The judges then debated for another hour and a half, ﬁ nally coming to a unanimous decision at 5:30 a.m. Judges’ TableJUDGES’ TABLE     25“Usually, we wind up talking about the same thing: creativity and ambition versus skill 
and execution,” says Simmons. “We’re always looking for the perfect balance.” 
Above all, Colicchio is intent on reminding the rest of the panel of one of Top Chef ’s most 
fundamental rules: judging is based solely on how the contestants did on that day’s chal-
lenge. What the chef might have done before or what the judges expect him or her to do in the future absolutely cannot be counted. 
“Tom compares it to baseball,” says Simmons. “If you looked at it on paper, it would seem 
like the Yankees would win the World Series every year. But you can’t decide contests 
like that.”
This principle is often misunderstood by viewers, who express outrage when a strong 
competitor such as Lee Anne Wong or Tre Wilcox or Sam Talbot is abruptly eliminated after one bad performance. But in the world of 
Top Chef,  each dish is always  judged on 
its own merit. 
Frequent guest judge and chef Anthony Bourdain has the ﬁ  nal word: “I’d just like to see 
one of these producers try to tell Tom Colicchio what to do.”Opposite:  Tom and Padma ﬁ  nd 
a light moment in the midst of 
judging in Hawaii; cameras follow every reaction; supervising pro-ducer Andrew Wallace shows off the start and ﬁ  nish times of the 
marathon Judges’ Table in Aspen (in fact, the judges deliberated for another hour and a half once the cameras stopped rolling).Below:  Guest judge Ming Tsai, 
Judge Padma Lakshmi, Head Judge Tom Colicchio, and Judge Gail Simmons.Tom Colicchio
Here’s a question: would you 
want to cook for Tom Colicchio?   
On the one hand, it would probably be a ter-
rifying experience. Colicchio knows what he likes and, more important, he knows what he doesn’t like. He knows technique and he knows the lack of it. Used a simple sieve when a dish calls for a chinois? You’re going to hear about it. Calling a dish 
coq au vin  even though you’re 
using a chicken and not a rooster? Consider yourself busted. Few could condemn you for just throwing up your hands, saying to hell with it, and ordering a pizza instead. 
Then again, imagine if you actually got it 
right—the pleasure spreading across Colic-chio’s face, that stern look turning into a smile, the encouraging pat on the back. Because that’s the power that 
Top Chef ’s head judge 
holds: when he is displeased, it can be devastating (and mean the end of the road for the show’s contestants). When he’s happy, he can make you feel like a member of his exclusive fraternity; he can make a cook feel like a chef. 
 Such authority and passion is exactly what 
Top Chef ’s producers were looking for when 
they set out to ﬁ  nd a head judge. Colicchio earned his place in the food world ﬁ  rst as a 
self-taught line cook at some of New York’s best restaurants, then as the chef and co-
owner of Manhattan’s inﬂ  uential and beloved Gramercy Tavern, and ﬁ  nally at the helm 
of his Craft restaurant empire. Along the way, he’s seen more than his share of bizarre kitchen behavior—the kind that makes anything that takes place on 
Top Chef  look like 
child’s play. For instance, there was the female chef who peed her pants during a busy shift and stayed in place, banging out orders, until the rush subsided. “Or there was a chef I knew who worked in only a T-shirt and jockstrap,” Colicchio says. 
All of which is to say that it was easy for him to see the potential drama of a reality show 
centered on chefs. Still, he was hesitant when 
Top Chef ’s producers approached him. “I 
didn’t want to do a reality show that was about me,” he says. “And I’m deﬁ  nitely not an 
actor. I can’t work with a script.” 
 Colicchio takes his role seriously. During his mid-challenge walk-throughs, he carefully 
straddles the line between mentor and judge. (According to the show’s rulebook, he can ask questions but cannot give advice.) At Judges’ Table, he strictly enforces the rule that nothing counts except the food on the plate—not personality, past performance, future potential, or any other considerations. TOM’S 
QUICKFIRE
Which Top Chef  dish do you 
still dream about?
Tiffani made a raw arti-
choke dish with braised pork belly that was really delicious. And Hung’s duck dish from the Sea-son 3 ﬁ  nale was great. 
What was the worst dish 
you tasted?
Someone in Season 2 
gave me a kind of warm 
clam with coconut 
milk that was really disgusting. 
What would you cook for 
the ﬁ  nale? 
If it was autumn: raw 
hamachi with lemon and roasted beets. Roasted salsify with poached oysters. A spiced roast lobster with a green-tomato chutney. Squab with honey-glazed onions and endive and a kum-quat relish. And then venison with butternut squash tortelloni. 
Name ﬁ  ve ingredients always 
in your home pantry.
I don’t cook much at home. When I do, I go out and buy ingredients. But there’s always a chunk of Parmigiano-Reggiano in the fridge. Cold cuts. Cereal. My wife has all this health stuff. I don’t know what the hell is back there.  MOM’S 
QQUICKFIRE
26    TOM COLICCHIO“I think, more than the other judges, I can really identify with the contestants,” he says. 
“I know what they’re going through and how they should be judged on their food, not their personalities. I try to treat them the way I would a cook in one of my kitchens.” 
And, yes, he still has kitchens. That’s one side effect of 
Top Chef  stardom that Colicchio 
has found both amusing and alarming. Not long ago, he was walking through Craft in Los 
Angeles when he was stopped by a woman who was amazed to see him. “She said, ‘What are you doing here?’ I told her it was my restaur ant and she said, ‘Oh, you still do that?’ ” 
Colicchio chuckles. “I said, ‘Yeah. That’s what I do. I’m a chef.’ ”
TOM COLICCHIO     27Padma Lakshmi
Ask anybody who’s had to stand 
in front of her steely gaze at Judges’ Table: Padma Lakshmi may be lovely but she’s a no-nonsense kind of gal. That’s why, when people ask what is the most important thing about her job as 
Top Chef  host and judge, 
she doesn’t start talking about such airy virtues as judgment or taste or empathy.  
“My digestive tract,” she tells them, going right 
for the gut. “I’m tasting as many as sixteen dishes a day, each of which has at least ten or twenty ingredients in them. It wreaks a lot of havoc on my tummy.”
Not that airy virtues aren’t important, too. (At least once the antacids are packed away.) Having grown up in India and the United States, and then traveling the globe as a fashion model, Lakshmi literally brings a world of experience to the Judges’ Table. (The cross-cultural perspective is evident in her cookbooks, 
Tangy, Tart , Hot & Sweet  and Easy 
Exotic .) She rejects the idea that there’s any disconnect between being a model and a 
lover of food. “First of all, models represent a cross-section of everybody else,” she says. “I understand that people say they have trouble trusting a skinny cook. I’m just blessed with a high metabolism. And, you know, I’m working hard at the gym one hour a day.” (Before you ask the other question every single person asks, the scar is from a car accident when she was fourteen.)
As host, Lakshmi is the one who develops the strongest bond with 
Top Chef ’s contes-
tants. “I get very possessive about them, because I’m right there with them. I’m the only 
person who tastes every single thing they make,” she says. “When I introduce them to a 
new guest judge—like Eric Ripert or Daniel Boulud—I almost feel like, ‘OK, guys, make us proud!’ ”
Of course, if Lakshmi sometimes plays the encouraging mother to her ﬂ  ock of aspiring 
chefs, she is also their disciplinarian, the last face that all but the crème de la crème will 
see before heading off to pack their knives. 
Lakshmi is as straightforward about this role as everything else: “I’m the executioner,” 
she says.PADMA’S 
QUICKFIRE
Which Top Chef  dish do you 
still dream about?
Ilan’s ﬁ  deos with 
clams and saffron.
What was the worst dish 
you tasted?
Hands down, Ilan’s 
chocolate ganache with liver in it. It was really revolting. 
When was the most difﬁ  cult 
time to say “Pack your knives”?  
There have been many. Lia was really hard because I hoped she would go further. 
When was the easiest?
You never enjoy it, but 
there have been one or two people I’ve had no problem saying it to. 
Name ﬁ  ve ingredients always 
in your home pantry.
Coconut milk, shallots, ginger, lemons, and sea salt.
What would you cook for 
the ﬁ  nale? 
I would do four courses, 
moving from East to West. A ﬁ  rst that’s light 
but ﬂ  avorful, like a South Indian crab cake with tamarind and lime leaves. 
Then lamb meatballs from the Middle East. The big course would be a brasato al barolo—classic braised beef. I’d ﬁ  nish off with mille-feuilles with a cardamom crème anglaise.S DMPADMA’S
QQUICKFIRE
28    PADMA LAKSHMI    PADMA LAKSHMI    29
Balancing the Judges’ Table 
between Tom Colicchio’s cheﬂ  y 
knowledge and Padma Lakshmi’s diner’s perspective is Gail Simmons. Gail usually stays out of the kitchen, letting Tom do the walk-throughs and Padma announce the challenges, but her role is crucial. 
She’s the moderator, the sum-upper, quick to 
distill the whole table’s thoughts into a single, pointed piece of criticism. Sure, these can be hard to swallow sometimes, like when she told Sam his watermelon and cheese dish made her 
feel sick, but she has the credentials to back them up.
Simmons has experience in nearly every aspect of the culinary world. She’s been a culinary student, a cookbook writer, an assistant to the venerable food writer Jeffrey Steingarten, and an apprentice in pro kitchens. Then, of course, there’s her role as the special projects editor of 
Food & Wine  magazine, which includes being responsible for 
the Food & Wine  Magazine Classic in Aspen, the nation’s premier food festival. All this, 
and a wardrobe of satiny tops to boot! 
Simmons’s wealth of experience has given her not only what fellow judge Ted Allen calls 
an “encyclopedic knowledge of all things culinary,” but also a foot ﬁ  rmly planted on 
either side of the chef/diner divide. “Oftentimes, I ﬁ  nd myself in the middle of Tom and 
Padma. I understand both their arguments,” she says.
Which is not to say that Simmons doesn’t have strong opinions of her own. At least one blogger dubbed her “the Lioness,” and not just for her appreciation of sinking her teeth into a rare piece of meat. “Gail can come off as much more stern than she is,” says Lakshmi. “She’s really sweet and cuddly, like a high-school sweetheart.” Still, this is undoubtedly a woman who knows what she likes as well as what she doesn’t, a list that includes overfussiness in preparation and overcookedness in almost anything. (Future 
contestants take note: she’s not terribly fond of cilantro, veal, or black beans, either.) Most famously, she’s particular about how her eggs are cooked, something demonstrated quite clearly during the Season 2 challenge in which the chefs were asked to cook break-fast for a gang of surfers. Ever since, she says, people have tended to think of her as the “crazy egg lady.” 
 “I do love eggs, and I do get upset when they’re bad. But I don’t get that upset,” she 
laughs. It’s worth noting, however, that a similar rant—about a particularly bad brunch Gail Simmons
30    GAIL SIMMONSGAIL ’S 
QUICKFIRE
Which Top Chef  dish do you 
still dream about?
Tiffani and Dave made 
a Vietnamese-Mexican burrito in the Season 1 street-cart challenge. Also, Tiffani’s artichoke risotto from the ﬁ  nale. 
What was the worst dish 
you tasted?
There was a surf-and-
turf dish prepared by Emily at the ﬁ  rehouse challenge during Season 2 that was so salty I could barely eat it. 
Ever spit anything out? 
I don’t think so. There are plenty of things I’ve wished I hadn’t put in my mouth. 
Name ﬁ  ve ingredients always 
in your home pantry.
Red wine vinegar, lemons 
and limes, fresh herbs, strong mustard, a big chunk of Parmigiano-Reggiano. 
What would you cook for 
the ﬁ  nale? 
A quail egg, lightly 
scrambled with herbs and trufﬂ  es and put back in the shell with butter. A soup. Scallops. A big whole roasted meat—like venison with mushrooms or ﬁ  gs—carved tableside. And a simple, rustic tart.experience that actually ended in egg-related tears—secured Simmons the role of per-
manent Top Chef  judge at her audition. 
Like Colicchio, when Simmons is hard on a contestant, it seems to come from a place of professional disappointment rather than malice. “I always try to remember how hard it is being in their position,” she says. But she does like when things get contentious—whether that means defending Hung’s hardball tactics on her blog (“This is a competi-tion,” she says) or expressing surprise that more chefs don’t talk back at Judges’ Table. 
“I’m amazed that we say some of the things we say to them and they just answer, ‘Yes. 
You’re right. OK.’ If I were them, I’d be like, ‘How dare you? Shut up!’”
GAIL SIMMONS     31Top Cookbooks
Even a Top Chef  judge can’t 
eat all the time. Sometimes she’ll need to do a little reading between meals. Gail Simmons admits that her collection of cookbooks and books on food verges on the obsessive. Here are some of her favorites—minus, of course, those penned by her fellow judges. (Tom Colicchio’s 
Think Like a Chef  
and Craft of Cooking  ; Padma 
Lakshmi’s Easy Exotic  and 
Tangy, Tart, Hot & Sweet ; and 
Ted Allen’s The Food You Want 
to Eat .)
Timeless Techniques 
How to Cook Everything  by Mark Bittman
Jacques Pépin’s Complete Techniques  by 
Jacques Pépin and Léon Perer
Joy of Cooking  by Irma S. Rombauer, 
Marion Rombauer Becker, and Ethan 
Becker
Kitchen Sense: More Than 600 Recipes 
to Make You a Great Home Cook  by 
Mitchell Davis
Larousse Gastronomique: The World’s 
Greatest Culinary Encyclopedia
The Way to Cook  by Julia Child
Modern Classics
Bistro Cooking  by Patricia Wells
Chez Panisse Vegetables  by Alice Waters
I Like You: Hospitality Under the Inﬂ  uence  
by Amy Sedaris
Roasting: A Simple Art  by Barbara Kafka
The Zuni Cafe Cookbook  by Judy Rodgers
Regional Favorites
The Barbecue! Bible  by Steven Raichlen
Cracking the Coconut: Classic Thai Home 
Cooking  by Su-Mei Yu
Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking  by 
Marcella Hazan
The New Book of Middle Eastern Food by 
Claudia Roden
Madhur Jaffrey’s Quick & Easy Indian 
Cooking  by Madhur Jaffrey
The New American Cheese: Proﬁ  les 
of America’s Great Cheesemakers and 
Recipes for Cooking with Cheese  by 
Laura Werlin
The Lee Bros. Southern Cookbook  by 
Matt Lee and Ted LeeTed Allen
Let’s say you’re planning the perfect dinner party. You want 
guests who are educated, good-looking, and interesting to talk to. You want to serve good food (otherwise you might just tell one of the cooks to pack their knives and leave). And you want that one guy who makes everybody else laugh, the bon vivant—stylish, witty, informed, and always ready with the quip or bon mot. In the feast that is 
Top Chef , that man is Ted Allen.  
For all his sophistication and expansive knowledge of dining and food, Allen is also 
something of a reassuring, approachable voice for the amateur cooks in the Top Chef 
audience—a persona just as much in evidence when he was the culinary enforcer on 
Queer Eye for the Straight Guy . “When Queer Eye  was launched, they could have chosen 
a chef or a sommelier for that role,” Allen remembers. “What I try to do is bring a kind 
of appoachability to the show. I help interpret all these fancy techniques and ﬂ  avors for 
regular viewers.” It probably doesn’t hurt his populist proﬁ  le that Allen is an oft-declared 
sucker for bacon, or that his sole professional kitchen experience was as a fry cook at a Ponderosa Steakhouse. (We can only pray that someday the photos emerge.) 
 “It’s very difﬁ  cult to be a chef, and that’s a difﬁ  culty I haven’t put myself through,” Allen 
says. “So I always try to show the appropria te respect to people who have worked so hard 
to make it.” Of course, Allen is hardly a total amateur, having authored the beautifully 
named cookbook 
The Food You Want to Eat  and been a regular contributor of food writing 
to such magazines as Esquire  and Bon Appétit . This distinguished background does en-
title Allen to a sharp barb or two: he once told Betty Fraser that her dish resembled lawn rakings. And he was hardly able to disguise his disgust at the salmon “catastrophe” that got Tre Wilcox sent home. Such moments are among the few that Allen says he regrets about his time on 
Top Chef . 
 “I was raised by Southern parents to believe that anybody who puts food in front of you 
has done you an act of great love,” he says. “It’s hardly ever appropriate to be ﬂ  ippant or 
sarcastic about that.”
 Besides, Allen may be better at a kind of humor that’s both slyer and (after years of 
working with Queer Eye costar Carson Kressley) raunchier. “Often I have to kick myself, 
‘Be a grown-up! Be a grown-up!’” he says. Sometimes the kid wins out: when he wrote his blog entry on Season 3’s 
Top Chef   winner, he titled it “Well, Hung.”
The Quickﬁ  re was done 
and so was the Elimination 
Challenge. Somehow the production team had gotten through ﬁ  lming the ﬁ  rst epi-
sode of a new show called 
Top Chef . The Judges’ Table 
deliberations were complete, the decision unanimous, and now only one thing remained: the ﬁ  rst reading of the soon-
to-be-legendary line, “Please pack your knives and go.” There was only one problem. 
“I tried to say the line, but my heart was beating so hard the microphone picked it up,” 
says Katie Lee Joel, the host of Season 1. She laughs. “That actually happened twice. And the guy had to stand there and take it each time.”
 Part of Joel’s nervousness may be a ttributable to the erratic personality of that ﬁ  rst 
eliminated contestant, Ken Lee. “He had some really outrageous behavior, some of it 
directed at me,” she remembers. But the jitters may also have been a function of the whirlwind that landed the then-twenty-four-year-old in the host’s chair. At that point, Joel was a relative TV novice, working mostly on the cooking website she cofounded, oliveandpeach.com. She didn’t have an agent at the time of her 
Top Chef  audition; her 
only thought was to make sure “this wasn’t one of those shows where they eat bugs or anything.” Two days after the audition, she was on a plane to San Francisco.
 Luckily she was in good company with fellow judges Colicchio and Simmons, both 
of whom were also new to reality TV. “It was fun,” Joel remembers. “We just all went with it. I remember one time coming back from Napa Valley, we were all dressed up in fancy clothes, and we stopped at an In-N-Out Burger and just pigged out.”
 Just as luckily, Joel brought a love of food cultivated while growing up in her grand-
mother’s kitchen in West Virginia. That passion made her a sharp and insightful judge and helped her get through the long, sometimes brutal shooting schedule. “It was exhausting,” she says. “I starred on a food show and I wound up losing ten pounds.” 
 The hardest part for Joel may have been acting the cold, stern disciplinarian. “I’m a 
bubbly person. They would tell me, ‘Can you not smile so much?’ ” she says. “Even Ken, when he came up to the table and I knew I was going to eliminate him, I saw 
something soft in his eyes. I didn’t like the guy, but I felt sorry for him.”Katie Lee Joel
KATIE LEE JOEL     33TED’S 
QUICKFIRE
Which Top Chef  dish do you 
still dream about?
Dale’s scallops with purs-
lane and grape sauce. 
What was the worst dish 
you tasted?
In Season 2, each 
chef was given a color. Betty chose green and turned in some kind of burrito inside of a zuc-chini inside of a tortilla, with mounds of produce on top. It was an abso-lute mess. 
Ever spit anything out? 
No. But there have been a few things I’ve needed a big slug of water to choke down. 
Name ﬁ  ve ingredients always 
in your home pantry.
Cheese—Parmigiano-Reggiano and a wonder-
ful French cheese called Prince de Claverol. A 
nice free-range chicken. French butter. Rosemary. 
And Champagne. 
What would be the hardest 
thing about competing? 
I would never compete in 
a TV reality show where I’d have to give up my phone and my iPod. Out of the question.34    MEET THE GUEST JUDGESMiami
Michelle Bernstein
Michy’s
Season 2, Episodes 5 and 13; 
Season 3, Episode 14 
Norman Van Aken
Norman’sSeason 3, Episode 2 
Barton G. Weiss
Barton G. The RestaurantSeason 3, Episode 4
Michael Schwartz
Michael’s Genuine Food and DrinkSeason 3, Episode 10
Massachusetts
Ming Tsai
Blue Ginger—Wellesley, MASeason 2, Episode 2
Todd English
Olives—Charlestown, MA Season 3, Episode 14The creators of Top Chef always 
knew that the show would rely heavily 
on the talents and reputations of its guest judges. 
They probably couldn’t have dared to hope that the 
roster of guests would someday comprise a who’s who of America’s most talented chefs and restaurateurs. It all started with San Francisco’s Hubert Keller, who was brave enough to allow sixteen contestants (and an entire camera crew) into his Fleur de Lys kitchen during a dinner rush and set the tone for the show when he uttered, “Nobody sticks their ﬁ  nger in the sauce!” 
Since then, some of the country’s most famous chefs have shared their expertise, from Eric Ripert on one coast to Suzanne Goin on the other. The roster of non-cooking food pros has been equally impressive, from 
Food & Wine  magazine editor-in-chief Dana Cowin to 
legendary restaurateur Sirio Maccioni. Why would all of them be willing to endure the rigors of shooting real-ity TV? “There are lots of good reasons,” says another guest judge, Rocco DiSpirito. “It’s really fun. And just sitting next to Tom Colicchio kind of elevates you in the public eye.” 
Sometimes the compliment goes the other way, as when 
the deans of the French Culinary Institute—including 
gastronomic giant André Soltner—agreed to host and 
judge a Season 3 challenge. “When I was coming up, André Soltner was God,” Colicchio says. “When it came time to introduce him as a judge, I actually had to stop and collect myself. I couldn’t get the words out. It was just thrilling.”
 Meet the Guest JudgesSan 
Francisco
Hubert Keller
Fleur de Lys
Season 1, Episodes 1 and 11; 
Season 2, Episode 13
Elizabeth Falkner
Citizen CakeSeason 1, Episode 2
Laurent Manrique
AquaSeason 1, Episode 3
Jefferson Hill
The Rotunda at Neiman MarcusSeason 1, Episode 4
Mike Yakura
Sutra and AuraSeason 1, Episode 5; 
Season 2, Episode 10
Hiro Sone
AmeSeason 1, Episode 9Los Angeles
Hiroshi Shima
Sushi RokuSeason 2, Episode 2
Suzanne Goin
Lucques and AOC Season 2, Episode 4
Raphael Lunetta
JiRaffeSeason 2, Episode 7
Lee Hefter
SpagoSeason 2, Episode 8
Govind Armstrong
Table 8 and L ’Scorpion
Season 3, Episode 7New York
Jeffrey Chodorow
China GrillSeason 1, Episode 7 
James McDevitt
BudoSeason 1, Episode 9 
Drew Nieporent
NobuSeason 1, Episode 12 
Anthony Bourdain
Brasserie Les HallesSeason 2, Episode 6; 
Season 3, Episodes 1 and 11 
Eric Ripert
Le BernardinSeason 2, Episode 11; 
Season 3, Episode 13 
Wylie Dufresne
WD~50Season 2, Episode 13
Alfred Portale
Gotham Bar and GrillSeason 3, Episode 3 
Daniel Boulud
DanielSeason 3, Episode 8
Geoffrey Zakarian
Town
Season 3, Episode 9
Sirio Maccioni
Le CirqueSeason 3, Episode 12
André Soltner
French Culinary Institute
Season 3, Episode 12
Additional Judges
Chef John Ash 
Wedding planner Marcy Blum
Actress Lorraine Bracco, owner of Bracco WinesChef Stephen BulgarelliChef Jimmy CanoraChef and restaurateur Scott Conant Actress Jennifer CoolidgeDana Cowin, editor-in-chief of 
Food & Wine  magazineDeans of the French Culinary InstituteChef and restaurateur Rocco DiSpiritoChef Maria FrumkinChef Tom HumphriesChef Robert IvanActress Debi MazarChef James McDevittChef and restaurateur Michael MinaJohn Shafer, owner of Shafer VineyardsMixologist Jamie WalkerMixologist Kristin WoodwardNapa Valley
Greg Cole
Celadon
Season 1, Episode 9
Lissa Doumani
Terra
Season 1, Episode 9
Philippe Jeanty
Bistro JeantySeason 1, Episode 9
Douglas Keane
CyrusSeason 1, Episode 9
Keith Luce
Press Restaurant
Season 1, Episode 9 
Cindy Pawlcyn
Mustards GrillSeason 1, Episode 9
Victor Scargle
Julia’s Kitchen at COPIASeason 1, Episode 9
Honolulu
Alan Wong
The Pineapple RoomSeason 2, Episode 12
Roy Yamaguchi
Roy’sSeason 2, Episode 13Breakfast
Elia’s  Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner Wafﬂ  e 
with Ham, Cheese, and Fried Egg
C.J.’s  Crêpes
Filled with Almond Whipped Cream and Strawberries
Hung’s  Steak and Eggs 
with Papaya, Banana, and Grand Marnier® Shake 
Sara M.’s  Eggs in a Hole
Lisa’s  Fruit Kabobs 
with Honeyed Red and Blue Yogurt39
40
41
42
44
42394947
Ilan’s  Spanish Tortilla 
with Chipotle Aioli
Betty’s  Black Forest Ham and Egg Bundle 
with Corn and Leek Ragout on Rustic Toast
Mia’s  Crabcakes Benedict 
with Mango Cream Sauce45
47
49APPETIZERS     39
Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner Wafﬂ  e  
with Ham, Cheese, and Fried Egg
CHEF: Elia 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 7
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare breakfast on the beach for surfers.
1⁄3 cup refried beans (homemade or 
canned), warmed
1  tablespoon olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1  tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons unsalted 
butter
1  large egg1  frozen wafﬂ  e
Maple syrup for drizzling2 thin slices Muenster cheese2 thin slices coppa ham1  tablespoon chopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf 
parsley 
 1. Preheat the broiler.
 2. In a small bowl, combine the refried beans with the olive oil, adding a little water to 
thin to spreadable consistency if needed. Mix well and season with salt and pepper 
to taste. 
 3. In a small skillet, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter over medium heat. Crack the egg 
into the skillet and fry to desired ﬁ  rmness. Remove from the skillet and set aside.
 4. While you’re frying the egg, toast the wafﬂ  e to desired doneness. Spread with the 
remaining 2 teaspoons butter and top with the refried bean mixture, spreading to cover the edges of the wafﬂ  e so it doesn’t burn.
 5. Drizzle with maple syrup and top with the cheese.
 6. Put the wafﬂ  e on a baking sheet and broil until the cheese melts, 2 to 3 minutes, 
watching carefully so it does not burn.
 7. Remove from the oven, top with the ham and fried egg, and sprinkle with the parsley. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste and serve immediately.20 minutes
Serves  1
Winner
SURFER, GUEST JUDGE    “AWESOME. IT FILLED YOU UP AND DIDN’T HAVE YOU FEELING ALL FULL LIKE YOU’RE 
GOING TO SINK WHEN YOU GO IN THE WATER.”
BREAKFAST     39CHEF: C.J. 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 11QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Make P adma breakfast.
Crêpes: 
2 large eggs1 
1⁄2 cups milk, or more if needed
Pinch of salt1 
1⁄2 cups unbleached all-purpose ﬂ  our 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, 
plus some for the panAlmond Whipped Cream and Strawberries:1  cup heavy cream1  teaspoon almond extract
1⁄4 cup confectioners’ sugar
1  pint strawberries
For the Crêpes:
 1. In a blender, combine the eggs, milk, and salt; blend until smooth.
 2. Sprinkle in the ﬂ  our and blend until smooth. Add the butter and blend again. Add a 
bit more milk if necessary to make a thin, smooth batter.
 3. Heat a 9-inch sauté pan or crêpe pan over medium-high heat. Brush lightly with 
butter, then pour in 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 cup of the batter, tilting the pan to distribute it thinly over 
the bottom. Cook for about 1 minute, until just browned on the bottom, then use your 
ﬁ ngers to ﬂ  ip the crêpe over; cook for 10 seconds on the other side, then transfer to 
a plate. Repeat with the remaining batter, stacking the crêpes on the plate as they are cooked.
For the Almond Whipped Cream and Strawberries:
 1. In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters, whip the cream, almond extract, and confec-
tioners’ sugar until soft peaks form. Set aside.
 2. Hull and thinly slice the strawberries. Set aside.
To Se rve:
 1. Place 2 crêpes on each of 2 serving plates and top with some of the strawberries 
and whipped cream; fold into a triangle and top with the remaining strawberries and whipped cream.
 2. Serve immediately.15 minutes
Serv es 2
HOW TO:
Save Some 
for Later
This crêpe recipe makes enough batter for 8 to 10 crêpes. Stack the leftover crêpes, wrap them tightly in plastic, and refriger-ate or freeze them. They can be thawed and reheated quickly in a dry skillet.Crêpes
Filled with Almond Whipped Cream and Strawberries
C.J.    “WOMEN LOVE CRÊPES. IF THERE WAS ANOTHER SPICE GIRL, SHE’D BE CRÊPE SPICE.”
40    BREAKFASTAPPETIZERS     41
CHEF: Hung 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 11
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Make P adma breakfast.
Shake:
2 cups peeled, seeded, and diced papaya1  banana, sliced1  cup milk1  cup crushed ice
1⁄4 cup Grand Marnier®
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice (optional)HoneySteak and Eggs:One 8-ounce New York strip steakSalt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons vegetable oil2 large eggs1  small onion, cut into 
1⁄4-inch slices
1  cup sliced button mushrooms
For the Shake:
  In a blender, combine the papaya, banana, milk, ice, liqueur, and lemon juice, if 
using. Blend until smooth, add honey to taste, and blend to combine. Pour into a tall, chilled glass.
For the Steak and Eggs:
 1. Season the steak with salt and pepper on both sides. Heat the oil in a medium sauté 
pan or skillet over high heat. Add the steak and cook for 3 to 4 minutes on each side for  medium-rare, or to desired doneness. Add the eggs and cook to the desired ﬁ  rm-
ness. Remove to a serving plate and set aside to rest. 
 2. Return the pan to the heat and add the onion and mushrooms; cook, stirring, until 
just softened and browned, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Spoon the onion and mushrooms onto the plate next to the steak and eggs, and serve immediately.20 minutes
Serves  1
Winner
PADMA LAKSHMI, JUDGE    “I’M REALLY NOT A FAN OF STEAK AND EGGS, BUT THIS WAS REALLY VERY GOOD.”Steak and Eggs 
with Papaya, Banana, and Grand Marnier® Shake
BREAKFAST     41CHEF: Sara M. 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 11QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Make P adma breakfast.
1  grapefruit
4 large eggs 
1⁄2 cup milk
2 tablespoons sugar
1⁄2 teaspoon salt 1⁄2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
4 slices multigrain bread4 tablespoons unsalted butter4 thin slices prosciutto (about 2 
1⁄2 ounces)
Maple syrup for serving
 1. Using a sharp knife, peel the grapefruit, removing all the white membrane. Carefully 
cut down along the side of one section to the center of the grapefruit, then turn the 
knife and lift the section out. Remove the remaining sections from the membranes, separating them. Set aside.
 2. In a wide, shallow dish, whisk together 2 of the eggs, the milk, sugar, salt, and 
 cinnamon.
 3. Using a 2 
1⁄2-inch round biscuit cutter, cut a hole in the center of each of 2 slices of 
bread. Put all 4 slices of bread in the egg mixture and let them soak for 1 minute on each side. 
 4. In a sauté pan or skillet large enough to ﬁ  t the bread slices in one layer, melt the 
butter over medium-high heat. When the foam subsides, carefully transfer the bread slices to the pan. Crack 1 egg into each hole in the bread slices. Cook until the bread is well browned on the bottom, about 3 minutes. Gently turn the slices over and cook until the second side is well browned, about 2 minutes. 
 5. Place 1 of the holeless bread slices on each of the serving plates. Lay 2 slices of the 
prosciutto over each and top with the bread slices with egg. Drizzle with maple syrup and serve immediately, with the grapefruit sections alongside. 20 minutes
Serv es 2
“Eggs in a Hole is 
deﬁ  nitely a classic. 
I love to eat them, and I guess Padma does, too, because mine were ugly as hell and she still chose me for the top three!”
SARA M.Eggs in a Hole
42    BREAKFASTFruit Kabobs  
with Honeyed Red and Blue Yogurt
CHEF: Lisa
SEASON 1, EPISODE 3
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Serve a monkﬁ  sh lunch to a group of children.
1⁄2 seedless watermelon 
1  cantaloupe or honeydew melon, halved, 
seeds removed
1  pineapple, peeled, cored, and cut into 
triangles
2 cups plain yogurt2 tablespoons good-quality honey
1⁄2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Seeds scraped from 1⁄2 vanilla bean 
(optional)
Red and blue food coloring
 1. Using a medium-size melon baller, scoop the watermelon and cantaloupe into balls. 
Thread 1 piece each of watermelon, cantaloupe, and pineapple onto each of 12 to 15 
bamboo skewers.
 2. In a medium bowl, combine the yogurt, honey, vanilla extract, and vanilla bean 
seeds, if using. Put half of the yogurt into a separate small bowl; color one half of the yogurt with red food coloring, the other with blue.
 3. Pour the yogurt into two squeeze bottles. Into small serving cups, squirt red yogurt 
and swirl with blue yogurt. Serve with the fruit skewers.20 minutes
Serv es 12 to 15
TOM   “DO KIDS LIKE YOGURT?”    LISA   “THEY LIKE BLUE YOGURT.”   KID   “WE’RE, LIKE, CRAZY ABOUT THAT YOGURT.”   WHAT ARE . . .
Kabobs
Marinate chunks of just about any food, thread them onto a skewer, grill or broil them, and you can call it a kabob—or a “kebab,” or a “shish kebab.” 
Usually featuring cubes of meat or ﬁ sh, and perhaps vegetables 
or tofu, the pure simplicity of food-on-a-stick seems to call out for dipping sauces—hence the curried mayonnaise accompany-ing the very classically seasoned grilled lamb kabobs on page 117 . Here the idea of the kabob is pared down to its essence: chunks of fruit, skewers, sauce. 
44   BREAKFASTSpanish Tortilla  
with Chipotle Aioli
CHEF: Ilan 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 7
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare breakfast on the beach for surfers.
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE   “THERE WAS SOMETHING ABOUT ILAN’S DISH THAT I REALLY, REALLY ENJOYED, EVEN 
THOUGH THE EGGS WERE A LITTLE OVERDONE.”Chipotle Aioli:
1⁄2 cup mayonnaise
2 tablespoons sun-dried tomato cheese 
spread (store-bought)
1  canned chipotle chile in adobo sauce, 
minced
1  garlic clove, minced
Salt and freshly ground black pepper Spanish Tortilla:12 large eggsSalt and freshly ground black pepper
One 7 .5-ounce bag original ﬂ  avor Terra 
Chips, crumbled
4 rye crisp crackers, crumbled, plus 
several more whole crackers for serving 
4 scallions, white and light green parts 
only, thinly sliced, plus more for garnish
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
For the Chipotle Aioli:
  In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise, cheese spread, chipotle, garlic, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Whisk until smooth. Set aside while you make the tortilla.
For the Spanish Tortilla:
 1. In a large bowl, whisk the eggs vigorously and season with salt and pepper. Gently 
fold in the crumbled Terra Chips, crumbled rye crisp crackers, and scallions.
 2. In a large nonstick skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the egg mixture 
to the pan, reduce the heat to medium-low, and cook until it begins to ﬁ  rm and is 
lightly browned on the bottom, 5 to 7 minutes. Loosen the sides of the tortilla with a spatula.
 3. Remove the pan from the heat and cover with a large heat-proof plate. (Get some-
one to hold the plate for you if you can.) Carefully invert the tortilla onto the plate, then gently slide it back into the pan with the browned side on top. Cook until fully set and the bottom is lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Remove from the heat, shake the tortilla loose from the pan, and slide onto a clean plate. Cut into wedges.
To Se rve:
  Spread some of the aioli onto rye crisp crackers and top with tortilla wedges. Spoon some aioli on top and garnish with sliced scallions. Serve immediately.30 minutes
Serves  6 to 8
BREAKFAST      45APPETIZERS     47CHEF: Betty
SEASON 2, EPISODE 7
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare breakfast on the beach for surfers.Black Forest Ham and Egg Bundle  
with Corn and Leek Ragout on Rustic Toast
2 tablespoons thinly sliced fresh basil
1  tablespoon olive oilSalt and freshly ground black pepper
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, or more if 
needed
1  leek, white and light green part, washed 
and sliced 
1⁄8 inch thick; dark green part 
cut into long strips for tying up bundle
10 cremini mushrooms, quartered1⁄3 cup fresh corn kernels
6 orange tomatoes, cut into 4 slices each, 
ends reserved for another use
12 large eggs
1⁄2 cup grated Monterey Jack cheese
12 thin slices Black Forest hamBasil oil3 tablespoons chopped chives for garnish12 slices rustic toast
 1. In a small bowl, combine the basil, oil, and a pinch each of salt and pepper. Stir to 
combine. Set aside.
 2. In a large skillet, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter over medium heat. Add the sliced 
leek, mushrooms, and corn. Cook for about 8 minutes, until tender. Using a slotted 
spoon, transfer the mixture from the skillet to a medium bowl. Cover to keep warm.
 3. In a small saucepan of boiling water, cook the strips of leek for about 2 minutes, 
until soft. Drain and set aside.
 4. Season the tomatoes with salt and pepper to taste. Add to the skillet, adding more 
butter if necessary to keep them from sticking. Cook over medium heat, turning once, until the tomatoes just begin to soften, about 1 to 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.
 5. In a large bowl, whisk the eggs vigorously until smooth. Season with salt and pepper; 
stir well to combine.
 6. In another large skillet, melt the remaining 3 tablespoons of butter over medium-low 
heat. Add the eggs and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring frequently, until cooked to desired ﬁ  rmness. Sprinkle the cheese over the eggs and stir to combine.
 7. Lay the ham slices on a work surface in a single layer, with a long strip of leek underneath each. The ends of the leeks should extend beyond the edges of the ham. Divide the egg mixture among the ham slices. Spoon the mushroom mixture over the eggs. Drizzle with basil oil and sprinkle with chives. Roll each slice of ham around the ﬁ  lling and tie the roll with the leek strips. Place 1 slice of toast on each serving 
plate. Top with the tomato slices and a ham and egg bundle. Serve immediately.30 minutes
Serves  12
WHAT IS . . . 
Black Forest Ham?
In the E.U., where “Black Forest ham” is by law written on only the true article, this question has an easy answer: a boneless ham, made in the Black Forest region of southwestern Germany, that has been dry-cured in a mixture of salt, juniper berries, and other spices and cold-smoked over pine or ﬁ  r branches. Real Black 
Forest ham is rich, smoky, and 
ﬁ rm-textured, and does not 
resemble the typical U.S. deli ham in the least.
In the States, just about anything 
can be called Black Forest ham. For this recipe, a deli-style Black 
Forest ham will do ﬁ  ne (though 
most are brine-cured and a bit on the sweet side), but if you want to make this dish a little fancier, try a real Black Forest ham imported from Germany. To be even more 
extravagant, use dry-cured and smoked Westphalian ham or thinly sliced baked country-style Southern ham, which is also dry-
cured and smoked. 
BREAKFAST     47APPETIZERS     49
CHEF: Mia
SEASON 2, EPISODE 7ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare breakfast on the beach for surfers.
 “ All the surfers 
needed to see on my sign was ‘crabcakes’ and 
I had a line of people. I couldn’t serve them fast enough.”
MIACrabcakes Benedict  
with Mango Cream Sauce
Mango Cream Sauce:
4 tablespoons unsalted butter2 tablespoons unbleached all-purpose 
ﬂ our
1  cup heavy cream, warmed to room 
temperature
1  large mango, peeled, pitted, and diced 
1⁄4 cup ﬁ  nely chopped red bell pepper
1⁄4 cup minced fresh cilantro
Salt and freshly ground black pepperCrabcakes Benedict:12 large eggs12 crabcakes (homemade or store-bought)One 9-ounce bag corn tortilla chips, ﬁ  nely 
crushed
Olive oilSalt and freshly ground black pepper
6 English mufﬁ  ns
2 tablespoons unsalted butterChopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley for garnish
For the Mango Cream Sauce:
 1. In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the ﬂ  our and whisk 
vigorously until the mixture is smooth and fragrant but does not change color. Add 
the cream and whisk until the mixture is well combined.
 2. Reserve 1⁄2 cup of the mango. Add the red pepper, cilantro, remaining mango, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a simmer, then reduce the heat to low and simmer for 8 to 10 minutes, stirring frequently, until the mixture is thick but smooth and the ingredients are cooked through. You may need to whisk the mixture from time to time to keep it from separating. Remove from the heat, cover, and set aside until ready to serve. Gently reheat just before serving if necessary.
For the Crabcakes Benedict:
 1. In a small bowl, whisk 2 of the eggs with 2 teaspoons water. Using a pastry brush, 
brush both sides of each crabcake with the egg wash. Dip each crabcake in the corn chips, coating both sides. Set the crabcakes aside on large plates.
 2. In a large skillet, heat 1 inch of oil over medium heat. Add the crabcakes, in batches if 
necessary, cooking until golden brown on each side, about 5 minutes per side, add-ing more oil to the pan for a second batch if necessary. As the crabcakes are ready, transfer them to a tray and cover with aluminum foil to keep warm.
 3. In a large bowl, whisk the remaining 10 eggs to combine and season with salt and 
pepper to taste.
 4. Split the English mufﬁ  ns in half and toast them.
 5. While the English mufﬁ  ns are in the toaster, wipe out the skillet, add the butter, and 
melt over medium-low heat. Add the eggs and cook to desired ﬁ  rmness, stirring 
frequently. Add more salt and pepper to taste if needed. Cover with foil to keep warm if necessary.
To Se rve:
  Put 1 English mufﬁ  n half on each plate. Top each English mufﬁ  n with a crabcake. 
Spoon some of the scrambled eggs over each crabcake. Top with the mango sauce and garnish with the reserved mango and the parsley. Serve immediately.45 minutes
Serves  12
BREAKFAST    49Season 1: Elimination Bracket
KEN
CYNTHIABRIANCANDICELISAANDREA*MIGUELSTEPHENLEE ANNEDAVETIFFANIHAROLD
EPISODE 1 EPISODE 2 EPISODE 3 EPISODE 4 EPISODE 5 EPISODE 6EPISODE 7 EPISODE 8 EPISODE 9 EPISODE 10 *EPISODE 11 EPISODE 12Winner of title “Top Chef” 
Winner of Elimination Challenge Winner of Quickﬁ  re 
Winner of both Quickﬁ  re and Elimination Challenges 
Contestant EliminatedWithdrew from Competition
Andrea was ﬁ  rst eliminated in the second episode, 
but then returned when Cynthia bowed out to take 
care of her sick father. 
Top Chef Reunion Show (No one was eliminated)
*
*Season 1: Episode Guide 
Nasty Delights
Prepare octopus for Chef 
Laurent Manrique.
Working in two teams, serve a monk-
ﬁ sh lunch to a group of children.
The chefs take the ugliest foods the judges 
can ﬁ  nd and make them look (and taste) 
good enough to eat. Impressing Chef Laurent Manrique proves to be a cakewalk compared with getting a gym full of ten-year-olds to eat monkﬁ  sh. Andrea returns when Cynthia bows 
out to care for her sick father.
Chef Laurent 
Manrique
Cynthia (with-
drew) and BrianTiffani
Andrea, Candice, 
Lisa, Miguel, and StephenWho Deserves to Be Here?
Survive the line at Hubert Keller’s 
Fleur de Lys restaurant.
Prepare a signature dish to be served 
to the other contestants.
It’s straight into the ﬁ  re as the cast joins the 
line at Chef Hubert Keller’s Fleur de Lys. Cool 
under pressure, Lee Anne impresses Keller while Ken shocks him speechless. (“Nobody sticks their ﬁ  nger in the sauce!”) Ken’s ﬂ  avor-
less halibut doesn’t live up to his swagger, and he is the ﬁ  rst to pack his knives.
Chef Hubert 
Keller
KenLee Anne
HaroldChef Elizabeth 
Falkner and 
Madame S.
AndreaStephen
MiguelFood of Love
Prepare a fruit plate.
Make a sexy dessert for a fetish party 
at a San Francisco sex boutique.
After some pretty tame fruit plates, the 
contestants cook up sexy desserts for Madame S.  Andrea’s Earth Mother sensibili-ties leave party guest RuPaul yawning, while Miguel dons a red wig, shows a little cleav-age, and makes the Madame swoon.
Food on the Fly
Create a dish using $20 worth of ingredients from a gas station.
Create a gourmet entrée that can be 
reheated in a microwave.
In this episode, the chefs have to think high-brow using the humblest of ingredients—gas- station munchies and a microwave. Stephen is in his element and gives the mothers judging the microwave cook-off an earful of “education.” Tiffani speaks their language, 
and wins with her simple sea bass.
Chef Jefferson 
Hill
CandiceLee Anne
TiffaniBlind Confusion
Identify strange foods by taste.
Fuse two of San Francisco’s culinary 
cultures in a new kind of street food.
After an impossible Quickﬁ  re quiz, Miguel 
and Dave blow off steam by going head to 
head in a snack food taste test. Tiffani wins her second Elimination Challenge with Dave, while Lisa drops the ball (and the jicama) and gets the boot.
Chef Mike 
Yakura
LisaAndrea
Dave and Tiffani31 2
4 5Season 1
Fire Up the Grill 
If there was any doubt 
that watching people cook would be interesting, it was gone by the end of episode 1 of 
Top Chef , 
when a madman named Ken was eliminated. 
The ﬁ  rst cast of chefs was notable for 
its diversity of backgrounds; in addi-
tion to professional chefs, it featured self-taught cooks, nutrition experts, and culinary students, among others. It quickly became clear that the pros were rising to the top, including two ﬁ erce ladies (Lee Anne and Tiffani), 
a “chef’s chef” (Harold), and a couple of characters you had to see to be-lieve (Stephen and Dave). The ﬁ  nal 
showdown, in which Harold claimed the title, was the perfect conﬂ  uence of 
social and stovetop skills. Episode
Winner of Title “Top Chef” Winner of Elimination Challenge Winner of Quickﬁ  re 
Guest JudgeContestant Eliminated1Restaurant Wars
Build a sandwich for Tom’s ’wichcraft 
restaurants.
Divide into two teams and turn an 
empty space into a restaurant in 24 hours.
Dave’s low-key comfort food trounces Stephen’s classy ode to Spanish wine. Under their restaurant’s homey exterior, though, Dave and Tiffani butt heads—and the phrase “I’m not your bitch, bitch” is immortalized.
Restaurateur 
Jeffrey 
Chodorow
MiguelHarold
DaveGuess Who’s Coming 
to Dinner
Create an appetizer using the limited 
ingredients Ted Allen preselects.
Create a seven-course dinner party 
for Ted Allen. Each chef works on another chef’s recipe.
As if a seven-course dinner party for food guru Ted Allen isn’t daunting enough, Tom tells the chefs they’ll be swapping dishes with one another. Miguel cracks under the pressure (that’s salt, not sugar!) and Andrea serves her last dud of a dish.6
Vegas Finale: Part 2
Prepare a ﬁ  ve-course meal to be 
served to a table of luminaries from the culinary world.
Tiffani pulls out all the stops and cooks double the dishes, while Harold plays it cool (with the help of a few under-the-table cock-tails). The judges go for quality over quantity, 
and Harold’s beef and quail make him the ﬁ  rst 
Top Chef.
Actress Lorraine 
Bracco and Drew Nieporent
Tiffani   Harold12Napa’s Finest
Re-create a classic junk food into a 
gourmet dish.
Prepare a dish with expensive black 
trufﬂ  es to be paired with a super-
rare wine.
The chefs start at the bottom of the culinary 
spectrum, reinventing corn dogs and nachos, then go straight to the top. With thousand-dollar-a-pound trufﬂ  es and a wine Stephen 
would kill for, they make a meal for Napa’s pickiest gourmands. 
Northern 
California chefs
Lee AnneHarold
Dave97 Wedding Bell Blues
Design and pitch a wedding-reception 
menu.
Cater a wedding reception for 100 
guests using the menu chosen in the Quickﬁ  re Challenge.
Grooms-to-be Scott and Scott choose Lee Anne’s Asian fusion menu, and the chefs have one night to cook a reception for one hun-dred. A Betty Crocker cake and cold salmon disappoint, and the team boots Stephen for playing Top Sommelier. Again.
Wedding planner 
Marcy Blum
StephenLee Anne
No one8
Top Chef Reunion Show
The cast gets together to relive the past nine 
episodes, heating up the Top Chef  reunion 
stage. Stephen shows his softer side and apologizes to Candice for their epic argu-ment over cookie cutters. Dave, with help from some of his castmates, bickers with Tiffani for most of the show. Brian ogles over Candice, and Harold proclaims he is, above all else, “a cook.” With equal parts laughter and tears, the ﬁ  rst Top Chef Reunion Special 
comes to an end. “It is what it is,” as they say.  10 Vegas Finale: Part 1
Prepare hotel room-service meals in 
thirty minutes for different customers.
The ﬁ  nal three arrive in Vegas and run room 
service for a night. Harold stuns the “high rollers” with his simple soup and has poker players going all-in for his prepackaged chicken wings. Dave can’t take the stress and comes out empty-handed.
Chef Hubert 
Keller
DaveHarold and Tiffani11Ted Allen
AndreaStephen
Lee AnneTOP STATS  
Age
30
Hometown
New York, NY
Favorite summer beverage
Gin and tonic
Philosophy
“I’m a cook. That’s 
what I do: I cook.”
Currently
Owner of Perilla in New York City
Featured recipes
Duo of Beef, p. 98
Strip Steaks, p. 108Quail, p. 142Red Snapper, p. 160
Ceviche, p. 175Fig Tart, p. 233“So long as I’m not 
going to another 
gas station or 
cooking for ﬁ ve-year-olds, 
I’m ﬁ  ne.”
HAROLD
54    HAROLD DIETERLEHarold Dieterle
SEASON 1
WINNERWINS: 3 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 2 QUICKFIRES
Way back in the ﬁ  rst challenge of the ﬁ  rst episode of the ﬁ  rst 
season of Top Chef , a tall, handsome contestant with a Long 
Island accent was quickly eliminated from the cooking line by 
guest judge Hubert Keller. This did not sit well with Harold Dieterle: he went on to win that episode’s Elimination Chal-lenge and never looked back.  
Stoic, reserved, and inevitably described as a “chef’s chef,” Harold was hardly the 
ﬂ ashiest of the bunch, but his professionalism couldn’t completely mask his sharp wit 
or competitive ﬁ  re. Making no enemies proved to be a good strategy, helping him secure 
the cooperation of his former opponents in the Las Vegas ﬁ  nale and ultimately securing 
his win. And Top Chef ’s ﬁ rst Top Chef also became Top Chef ’s ﬁ rst public success story 
when Harold’s New York restaurant, Perilla, opened in 2007 and received a star from the 
New York Times .
What does it mean to be a “chef’s chef”? I think it’s a compliment. It means not trying to reinvent the wheel with my cooking—keeping everything simple, clean. It means I like to spend time in the kitchen. I like to cook. The kitchen is kind of my sanctuary.  
Watching the show, it sometimes seemed like you were . . .  
Not enjoying myself? A lot of the time I w asn’t. I mean, it wasn’t what I expected. I really 
thought I’d be cooking all the time. Instead, there was all this time with cameras in your 
face, doing interviews, people asking, “How did this feel?” It’s almost like you’re seeing a shrink. 
Why did you decide to try out? 
First of all, I always enjoy doing cook-offs and competitions. That was a driving factor. And I knew I wanted to open a restaurant. You look at guys like Tom Colicchio and you realize that, aside from being really, really talented chefs, they also get press. They get noticed. 
What was the hardest adjustment about being on the show?  
I hadn’t had a roommate since culinary school. I was in a room with Miguel and Brian, and later Miguel and Stephen. Both painful snorers. Plus, they keep you in such a bubble. After a couple of days, I was ready to go home. You need to be mentally fortiﬁ  ed 
to get through it. It’s like going to war. 
When did you realize that the show was going to be a little more than just cooking? 
It had to be Miguel coming down the stairs with his S&M wig on and nothing else but tighty-whities. It was so offensive. It was one of the funniest things I’ve ever seen. 
KATIE LEE JOEL, SEASON 1 HOST     “I KNEW THAT HAROLD WOULD WIN 
FROM THE VERY FIRST NIGHT. HIS FIRST DISH WAS FAR ABOVE EVERY-
ONE’S, AND I JUST SAID, ‘THIS GUY’S GOT IT.’ ”
HAROLD DIETERLE     55THE REAL 
RESTAURANT WARS
One of the most anticipated epi-
sodes of every Top Chef  season is 
“Restaurant Wars,” in which the contestants are divided into two teams and judged on their hastily assembled mock restaurants. If there’s anybody in a position to judge how close Restaurant Wars is to the actual process, it’s 
Harold Dieterle. 
High off his big win, he opened his 
own restaurant, Perilla, garnering the praise of New York diners, including 
New York Times  food 
critic Frank Bruni. So, was Res-taurant Wars good practice for 
the real deal? “Not at all,” laughs Dieterle. “They’ve done well by in-corporating things like décor and service, but there’s just nothing like opening a restaurant.”
 As many have learned before him, 
cooking is all but the smallest part of starting up a food busi-ness. Much more time is spent in such glamorous pursuits as wres-tling with employee tax codes, hiring dishwashers, and waiting on permits.
 True to form, Dieterle prefers 
cooking in the kitchen to schmooz-
ing in the dining room. Still, he’s learned to open up some. “These days, people want to meet the guy who makes their food,” he says. “At ﬁ rst I was a little apprehensive, 
but I think I’m adjusting.” “I am a nice per-
son, but I don’t 
feel like that’s what I came here to prove. I came here to prove that I can cook.”
TIFFANI
TOP STATS  
Age
30
Born in
Germany
Hometown
Boston, MA
Currently
Opening her ﬁ  rst 
restaurant in San Francisco, CA
Philosophy
“I like simple, I like clean, I like elegant.”
Featured recipes
Cubanos, p. 106
Pasta and Octopus, p. 177
Sea Bass, p. 178
56    TIFFANI FAISONSEASON 1
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 12, “VEGAS FINALE: PART 2”WINS: 3 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 1 QUICKFIRE
All no-nonsense skills and grim determination, Tiffani showed 
up for Season 1 with one thing in mind: winning.  
With Stephen in the kitchen, she may have been a dark horse to play the antagonist, but 
it quickly became clear that she was a supremely talented competitor. Tiffani says that 
watching her performance on TV led her to examine large aspects of her behavior; she regrouped by working the line at a friend’s seafood restaurant on Nantucket. Never lost in all the fussing and ﬁ  ghting was what a good cook she was. From all the challenges she 
won, to the close second-place ﬁ  nish, to her restaurant soon to open in San Francisco, 
Tiffani is a culinary force to be reckoned with. And she ultimately gained some measure of vindication as the hands-down champion of the
 Top Chef Holiday Special.
What was it like as the show started to become more popular? Before the show aired, I actually stopped cooking and was waiting tables in Las Vegas. Then the episodes started and, week by week, it was like a monster taking over: week one, nobody recognized me. Week two, a few. By the end I was having a hard time mak-ing money because everybody wanted to talk instead of letting me serve food. 
Were you surprised to ﬁ  nd yourself as the villain of Season 1?  
It was hard for me because I had found an industry where, for the ﬁ  rst time in my life, I 
felt so completely accepted. In the cooking world, being aggressive and strong and com-
petitive are supposed to be desirable traits. I’d never had to apologize for that before.
You deﬁ  nitely took the heat off Stephen. 
I was Stephen’s get-out-of-jail-free card. Why do you think you clashed with Dave so much? 
I don’t know. I thought he would be my homie because we’re both gay. I really didn’t know he disliked me so much until I watched the show. But we got together at the reunion and talked. You get to the point where you realize how ridiculous it is to hold on to all the 
bull@#$!. We’re actually friends now. 
Did you learn anything from your experience? 
I really think that everyone, at some point, should watch themselves on TV. The easy thing to say is, “Oh, it was just the editing. They made me look that way.” But you’re responsible for how you act. Even if it’s taken out of context. 
What did you see that you didn’t like? 
I had an attitude about some things that was totally unnecessary. It’s been a real struggle since the show, ﬁ  guring out how to keep those parts of me that make me successful 
at what I do while adding a little more softness and openness. How do you open up to people while still keeping your edge? 
KATIE LEE JOEL, SEASON 1 HOST    “THE CULINARY WORLD DOESN’T 
REALLY CELEBRATE WOMEN YET, AND THAT HARDENS MANY PEOPLE IN 
THIS INDUSTRY. TIFFANI WATCHES OUT FOR HERSELF, AND THERE’S NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT. IT OBVIOUSLY TOOK HER A LONG WAY.”Tiffani Faison
TIFFANI FAISON     57TOP STATS  
Age
43
Hometown
Long Beach, CA
Former Job
Owner of a technical 
recruiting ﬁ  rm
Currently
Executive chef of Crave on 42nd in New York City and working to open his restaurant in Los Angeles
Philosophy
“Simple foods, but with ﬂ avor. I just like to make 
real food for real people.”
Featured recipes
Panini, p. 95
Cubanos, p. 106 
Mac and Cheese, p. 185Lasagna, p. 196“I am just such 
a freak about food, 
and I love sharing.”
DAVE
58    DAVE MARTINDave Martin
SEASON 1
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 11, “VEGAS FINALE: PART 1”WINS: 3 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 0 QUICKFIRES
It’s probably fair to say that Dave was Top Chef   ’s ﬁ rst big sur-
prise. Nobody would have predicted that the emotional, easily 
ﬂ ustered chef with the bleached blond hair was going to make 
it to the ﬁ  nal three. 
On top of everything else, he was a late convert to professional cooking, having worked 
for years in Southern California’s tech industry. But, with big ﬂ  avors and homey ingre-
dients, make it he did, setting off sparks and plenty of tears (mostly his own) along the 
way. The battle between Dave and Tiffani became the ﬁ  rst great feud in the show’s his-
tory, culminating in Dave showing up hungover, and possibly still drunk, to help out his nemesis in the ﬁ  nale. It’s his priceless put-down, though, that will live on as the ﬁ  rst and 
best catchphrase in the show’s history: “I’m not your bitch, bitch.”
Have you watched any of the subsequent seasons of 
Top Chef  ? 
Not much. I’m busy. The last thing I want to do is watch a show I was on. But I’m really 
glad I was in Season 1. There was a lot of disorganization, but it was original; it was fresh 
and fun. Nobody knew what to expect. Now they come in with a game plan, thinking they’re going to become famous. 
That’s not what you thought? 
I knew it was a good way to get exposed. But just because you’re on a show doesn’t mean you’re going to be successful. You have to do the legwork. It’s not magic. Harold has a restaurant, but you have to understand how hard he worked to put that in place. 
How did the feud with Tiffani start?
She just bugged me. She was always telling me what to do. It gets annoying. I was sick and tired of it. But I think Tiffani has changed since the show. She had a lot of pent-up aggression and angst then. When we were down in Miami for the reunion, we had a totally different relationship. I think she’s happier. 
Were you aware of how famous the “bitch” line would be when you said it? 
It just popped out. You can ask any of my friends: whatever I say is live and real. Were you surprised by anything when you watched yourself? 
There were some tics I wasn’t aware I had. But that was just stress. Nervousness. As for 
the crying, I’m a really passionate person. And after a couple of weeks of everybody yell-
ing, your nerves are shot. 
Do you think there was a Dave in Season 2 or 3? 
No! Are you kidding? Another Dave? There’s no such thing!
TOM COLICCHIO, JUDGE    “YOU ASK SOMEONE TO DO HIS SIGNATURE DISH, 
AND HE DOES ENCHILADAS? I WAS SHOCKED HE MADE IT AS FAR AS HE 
DID BASED ON WHAT HE MADE EARLY ON. THAT SAID, HE’S NOT A BAD COOK, AND HE HAS ENOUGH PASSION FOR TEN CHEFS. YOU’VE GOT TO ADMIRE THAT.”
DAVE MARTIN     59DAVE-ISMS!
To Tiffani: “You know, you’re not 
saving a life, so it doesn’t work 
for me.”
About the sex shop challenge: 
“I went too literally with the bondage.”
Looking for Stephen: “
Donde  Top 
Sommelier?” 
Speculating on the ﬁ  nale: 
“I thought we were going to take 
a 20-mule team out to the Grand Canyon and get a Bunsen burner and a bow and arrow, and what-ever you can catch you cook. And it’s gotta be gourmet and it better look good.”
About cooking with Tiffani: “I’m 
helping someone that I have little or no respect for. I’m drinking. It’s the only way I can make it.” 
To Tiffani: “I’m not your bitch, 
bitch.”
60    STEPHEN ASPRINIOIt was nice for 
me to be able to educate my peers within this competition.”
STEPHEN“
TOP STATS  
Age 
26 
Hometown 
Denver, CO
Currently
Opening Forté di Asprinio 
in Palm Beach and work-ing as estate sommelier for the Livernano winery
Favorite style of wine
Champagne
Chef he most admires
Jean-Georges Vongerichten
Philosophy
“It’s not about just the food or just the wine; it’s about the experience.”
Featured recipes
Baby Manila Clams, p. 78
Corn Sopes, p. 103Colorado Lamb, p. 110Stephen Asprinio
With his megamoussed hair and his tendency to address the 
rest of the world as though it was one big kindergarten class, Stephen Asprinio seemed almost immediately to get under his Season 1 competitors’ skin. 
But it was always clear that he knew his stuff—not only about his specialty, wine, but 
about food, too. And though he had bad moments, like his ﬁ  ght with Candice Kumai, he 
showed a surprisingly human side by helping Harold Dieterle with a dessert—and even delivered a heartfelt apology to Candice on the reunion show. Still, it’s hard to get over those overly wide, under-the-chef’s-jacket ties.
Was it difﬁ  cult watching yourself on the show?
I was ashamed, in some ways, about how I came off—very abrasive, very intense in the 
wrong ways, like I was better than everybody else. At the same time, I know it was for the right reasons. For me it was about not accepting mediocrity, about not settling. It was about taking risks.
It was obvious that you were passionate.
It’s true. I wanted to project that I really care, you know? I give a damn. I do wish they had shown a little more of my human side. At the end of the day, no matter what had hap-pened, we would all get together and have a drink and start laughing. They didn’t show me smiling too much. They let me smirk, but they didn’t let me smile.
Yet Tiffani turned out to be the season’s big villain.
We always knew she would be incredibly competitive. She was there to win. I was there 
more for the experience, not just for the $100,000. So I wasn’t going to compromise any 
of my values. I have no interest now in being a chef.
You don’t?
I’m a restaurateur now. I 
hire chefs. I’m looking for empire status; I want to be one of the 
most inﬂ  uential hospitality professionals in the U.S.SEASON 1
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 8, “WEDDING BELL BLUES”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 2 QUICKFIRES
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE    “I HATED STEPHEN THAT FIRST SEASON. HE 
WOULD STAND IN FRONT OF US WITH THAT SMIRK ON HIS FACE, LIKE HE 
KNEW EVERYTHING. I’VE SINCE FOUND OUT THAT HE’S REALLY A SWEET GUY. BUT BACK THEN, I WANTED TO JUST SLAP HIM.”POP THE 
CHAMPAGNE!
Whatever else you may have 
thought about Stephen, the man 
has chops when it comes to 
wine.  His most impressive stunt 
involved running a dull cham-
pagne sabre down the length of 
a bottle of bubbly and popping 
the cork in a shower of foam. 
The trick, he admits now, looks 
more difﬁ  cult than it is. In fact, 
anyone who doesn’t mind spilling 
some suds can pull it off.
1.  Carefully remove the wire 
cage around the cork.
2.  Locate the seam of glass that 
runs from the top to the bottom 
of the bottle. This is where the 
two halves of the bottle are 
joined.
3.  Take your sabre (in a pinch, a 
butter knife will do) and run it up 
the length of the seam, hitting 
the lip of the bottle’s spout. The 
pressure of the bubbles within, 
combined with this sharp knock 
to the bottle’s weakest point, will 
cause the top to ﬂ  y off.
4. Spike up your hair like Archie 
and wear huge-knotted ties 
(optional).
STEPHEN ASPRINIO     61Lee Anne Wong
SEASON 1
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 9, “NAPA’S FINEST”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 3 QUICKFIRES
Of all the people behind the scenes of Top Chef —from execu-
tive producers to production assistants—none understands 
the show in quite the same way as Lee Anne Wong.  
That’s because before she was culinary producer—in charge of stocking the Top Chef  
pantry, buying equipment, budgeting time and money for challenges, and many other 
food-related tasks—Lee Anne was one of the strongest Season 1 competitors. She made it to fourth place, and her elimination kicked off one of the ﬁ  rst grassroots campaigns 
of outrage: “There were ‘Bring Back Lee Anne Wong’ websites,” she says. Also memo-rable was the tension between Lee Anne and T iffani, made worse by the fact that, by the 
end, the two remaining female chefs had to share a room. No wadays, says Bravo’s Dave 
Serwatka, Lee Anne is one of the most valuable members of the 
Top Chef   team. The 
only problem as far as Lee Anne is concerned is that she’s not allowed to come back for reunion specials like the “4-Star All Stars Reunion.” “I’m very competitive, and now I see them coming back and cooking for charity,” she says. “I’m like, ‘I want to play, too!’ ”
Do you get a kick out of watching the new contestants, now that you’re on the other side 
of the camera? I think it’s funny because, the ﬁ  rst few weeks, they don’t know what’s going on. And then 
they’re just worn down. In order to make it through this competition, you need to have talent, you need to have an ego, and you deﬁ  nitely need to have a sense of humor.  
Did you have a hard time living in the house?  It’s a little bit crazy. You’re living in a bubble. The only people you can talk to for thirty days are the other chefs, and you’re trying to beat them for money. But I really loved and adored most of my fellow contestants. 
When you say “most,” you know the next question.
Tiffani and I buried the hatchet a long time ago. She’s one of the most talented chefs I’ve ever seen. Girlfriend can cook. But at the time, we were sharing a room, and there was just so much negative energy coming from her. I couldn’t even speak to her. And then when I lost to her I was really depressed for a while. 
Did being on the show teach you anything? 
In terms of cooking, I’ve learned to simplify enormously. What got me kicked off was trying to do too much with a lamb dish. That would never happen now. And it’s helped me threefold in terms of handling challenges in my real job. Like, now I’ll be in the weeds at work, with so much to do, and I break it down like I’m on the show: “You can do this in thirty minutes and then this in one hour.” 
Is there anything you regret? 
Yeah. I regret putting so much stuff in my lamb dish! And I regret not being on a season 
where they send four people to the ﬁ  nale. Instead of being “in the ﬁ  nal four,” I was just 
“number four.”
KATIE LEE JOEL, SEASON 1 HOST     “IF I HAD HAD MY PICK, IT WOULD HAVE 
BEEN LEE ANNE AND HAROLD IN THE FINAL TWO.”62    LEE ANNE WONG“I love competing, 
and I’m sad to 
see any one of us go, but honestly I hope it’s not me.”
LEE ANNE
TOP STATS  
Age
30
Hometown
New York, NY
Currently
Executive chef of event 
operations at the French Culinary Institute; culinary producer for 
Top Chef
Philosophy
“Food is sexy.”
Featured recipes
Deep-Fried Oysters, p. 84
Corn Sopes, p. 103Curry Chicken, p. 147
For more from Lee Anne, check 
out her blog, “The Wong Way to 
Cook,” at BravoTV.com.“
SEASON 1
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 7 , “RESTAURANT WARS”WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 0 QUICKFIRES
Imagine this. It’s spring 2006. You’re at home in your liv-
ing room, ﬂ  ipping through cable channels, and you decide to 
check out the new food show Bravo’s been promoting.  
Best Chef , or something like that. It started last week. So, you ﬂ  ip over and what do you 
see? A twenty-eight-year-old, Russian–Puerto Rican Jew, on the hefty side, wearing 
a beret, a red wig, and no shirt, feeding dessert to a dominatrix. Welcome to Top Chef  ! 
From his heavy New York accent and his eminently quotable put-downs to his tendency 
to pass gas, revealed on the ﬁ  rst reunion special, there will never be another contestant 
quite like Miguel. Nor will there ever be a more perfect nickname: all hail Chunk le Funk!
How has it felt watching Top Chef  grow into a phenomenon?
I think all of us from the ﬁ  rst season feel like we were the best. We were there making 
history. It’s been fun watching other people go through it. If you put a camera in front of 
someone, whether a professional or an amateur, everything changes. Not many people can pick up the ball and run with that. It’s easy to sit at home and say, “Oh, yeah. I can do that!” It’s a lot harder with thirty cameras in front of your face.
Where did the snake line come from?  
Honestly, I didn’t even remember that happening. I just remember being very upset at that moment and thinking, Man this is really getting to me. At a certain point, you get exhausted. And you’re in a ﬁ  shbowl. I remember going to sleep and seeing the camera 
guy there, and then waking up and seeing another camera guy in the same place. It’s like, Whoa!
Are you a natural performer? 
I guess you could say that. If you inter viewed anybody I worked with, they’d tell you it 
was the Miguel show, 24/7 . I really wanted to show that chefs don’t always have to be 
standing there yelling and screaming. There are lots of ways to succeed. First and fore-most, I’m a chef, but I’m also a personality.
How did you come up with your “sexy” outﬁ  t? 
People thought it was a costume that Bravo gave me. When I was packing to go on the 
show, I saw a hat that my cousin, who works for the ﬁ  re department, had given me. I 
thought, This might be good to spunk up the house someday. So I threw it in my bag. 
Then I realized it matched the inside of my coat. Everybody was trying to convince me to go nude. I actually came downstairs in my tighty-whitey briefs once, but by the time they got the camera, I was already back in my clothes. 
If you don’t mind my asking, what was with all the farting? 
Oh, that’s just lactose intolerance.  
You’re just a gassy guy?  
I pass gas. Like every other human. And I like dairy and sweets. So, there you go. 
MIGUEL MORALES     63TOP STATS  
Age
28
Hometown
New York, NY
Currently
Cooking at The Mandarin 
Oriental in New York City
Heard about Top Chef
While browsing Craigslist to “meet young ladies.”
Philosophy
“Kitchen life is exhaust-ing. You have to be partially sane and insane at the same time.”
Featured recipes
Falafel, p. 190
Total Orgasm, p. 238“Chunk le Funk is 
ready for the 
challenge, baby.”  
MIGUELMiguel Morales
Ken Lee Andrea Beaman Brian Hill
“I cook for 
celebrities—
people that can afford me, if you will.”
BIO BITE  
Packed his knives 
Episode 3, “Nasty 
Delights”
Brian, personal chef to the 
rich and famous, started out as a foil to Ken—a calm, soothing voice of reason. It was quite a surprise, then, when he began 
lusting 
after Candice  and when, 
with what seemed like good intentions, he decided that kids would love mushy, maple syrup–coated baby carrots. Even monkﬁ  sh 
sounds better than that.
Featured recipe
Apple Crisp, p. 236“My food will 
help move you. 
You’ll have a 
nice B.M.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 2, “Food of 
Love”; Episode 6, “Guess Who’s 
Coming to Dinner” 
Andrea is the only Top Chef  
contestant with the distinc-
tion of being eliminated twice. The judges might have been a little bored with her veggie-centric offerings, but 
the fans loved her.
Featured recipe
Quinoa Pilaf, p. 198“You either like 
me or you don’t 
like me. I don’t give a @#$.”
BIO BITE  
Packed his knives 
Episode 1, “Who 
Deserves to Be Here?”
Calling Ken the show’s ﬁ  rst 
villain might be putting it 
too lightly—this guy was 
just plain kooky . From 
shouting in his sleep to screaming in the kitchen, Ken freaked out pretty 
much everyone. Without the cooking chops to back up his bluster, he quickly became the ﬁ  rst 
Top Chef  
casualty.
64    SEASON 1
Cynthia Sestito Candice Kumai Lisa Parks
“I’m a go-getter. 
I’m very ag gres-
sive when I go after something.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 5, “Blind 
Confusion”  
Lisa is a lawyer and a 
mother as well as a cook, and it was that combination of 
logic, leadership, 
and culinary chops  that 
helped her shine in chal-lenges like serving lunch to a gym full of kids. Handing out street food on a Mission District corner was a differ-ent story, though. Next time, keep track of the jicama!
Featured recipe
Fruit Kabobs, p. 44“I am trying to 
steer out of the 
modeling world and go into the culinary world.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 4, “Food on 
the Fly”
Candice, a young, charming 
culinary student and model, seemed a little out of her element in such a high-level, cutthroat contest. Still, she held her own in a classic ﬁ  ght with Stephen, 
bringing the bigheaded “educator” down to size 
with 
seven perfect 
words : “You’re a tool and 
a douche bag.”“My head hasn’t 
been here. It was 
probably the ﬁ  rst time in my life that I didn’t want to deal with food.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 3, “Nasty 
Delights”
Older and wiser than 
her rambunctious co-contestants, Cynthia seemed 
perfectly at 
home in the kitchen , 
casually chatting with Chef Laurent Manrique while others cowered in awe. To everyone’s disappointment, though, her time on the show was cut short by a family illness.
SEASON 1    65
Season 3, Episode 10
Create a dish 
using only $10 worth of products from an assigned supermarket aisle.
HIGHLIGHT: Hung’s whacked-out Technicolor 
magic cereal village.
LOWLIGHT:  Howie commits the one unspeak-
able Top Chef crime: he turns in nothing at all. 
Season 1, Episode 1
Work the line at chef Hubert 
Keller’s Fleur de Lys restaurant 
for 30 minutes.
HIGHLIGHT: Lee Anne leaps to the lead by showing off her line skills while crazy Ken 
begins his quick disintegration by sticking a ﬁ  nger in his sauce.
LOWLIGHT:  An inauspicious debut for eventual champion Harold, who is quickly booted.Season 2, Episode 3
Create an original 
ice cream ﬂ  avor .
HIGHLIGHT: Cliff’s Marshmallow and Cookie 
Ice Cream (see page 234).
LOWLIGHT: Casey’s spicy sriracha ice cream. “It was 
just wrong,” says guest judge Govind Armstrong. Everybody loves a nice, solid main 
course—a classic roast, say, or chicken 
stew. But who doesn’t really look for-ward with more anticipation to an exciting appetizer? Something ﬂ  ashy, 
surprising, and experimental? 
In the Top Chef  universe, the Elimination Challenges are 
a little like those main courses, and the appetizers are 
the Quickﬁ  res—those twisted, sometimes cruel little 
tests that demand brilliance and creativity at breath-taking speed. Here are some of our favorites.
66    QUICKFIRE MADNESSQuickﬁ  re Madness  Season 3, Episode 6
Culinary 
Bee
HIGHLIGHT: Joey, ﬂ  ustered by Padma 
“looking all sexy today,” fails to 
identify taro root.
LOWLIGHT:  Hung, feeling cocky, iden-
tiﬁ es celery seed as anise seed before 
even tasting it.
QUICKFIRE MADNESS      67 Season 2, Episode 4
Using $10 of 
ingredients from a vending machine, create an 
amuse-bouche .
HIGHLIGHT: Carlos somehow pulls off 
a Sunﬂ  ower Seed and Carrot Loaf with 
Cilantro, Sesame Oil, and Squirt®. 
(See page 191.)
LOWLIGHT: A bent Cheeto® sticking out of 
a piece of chocolate gives us a glimpse into 
the dark recesses of Michael’s mind.Season 2, Episode 5
Create a dish using 
offal, the leftover parts of animals.
HIGHLIGHT: Sam’s Sweetbread and Scallion Beignets, ﬂ  avored with 
Chinese ﬁ  ve-spice, and a sweet soy broth. (See page 96.) Guest judge 
Michelle Bernstein admits she still dreams of this dish.
LOWLIGHT:  Elia’s unrinsed kidneys. Says Bernstein: “They tasted like pee.”Appetizers and  
Small Plates
747271
Casey’s  Beef Carpaccio 
with Watercress, Fried Capers, and Shiitake Broth
Dale’s  Seared Scallops 
with Purslane and Marinated Grapes
Hung’s  Tuna Tartare 
with Niçoise Olives, White Asparagus, and Egg Vinaigrette
Marcel’s  Watermelon and Tomato Trio 
Watermelon Steak, Tomato Salad, and Watermelon Refresher
Frank’s  Ham and Cheese Mini Quiches 
with Pesto
Sam, Ilan, Marcel, and Betty’s  
Braised Pork Shoulder 
with Tomato Marmalade
Stephen’s  Poached Baby Manila Clams 
over Grilled Sea Beans71
72
73
74
76
77
78868378
Ilan’s  Baked Escargot in Their Shells 
Ilan’s  Morcilla and Squid Lau Lau
Marcel’s  Hamachi Poke 
with Pineapple Poi and Taro Chips
Lee Anne’s  Deep-Fried Oysters 
with Lemon Cream
Cliff’s  Hama Hama Oysters with Mango
and Split Prawns, Hamachi, and Daikon
Lia’s  Olive Oil–Poached Shrimp 
with Avocado and Cucumber, Lime, and Grilled Pepper Salad80
81
83
84
85
86APPETIZERS     71
Beef Carpaccio  
with Watercress, Fried Capers, and Shiitake Broth
Shiitake Broth:
1  teaspoon olive oil1  shallot, chopped1  garlic clove, choppedClean trimmings from 2 pounds shiitake 
mushrooms (about 5 ounces)
1 
1⁄2 cups low-sodium chicken stock
Salt
Mayonnaise:1  large egg1  teaspoon fresh lemon juice Grated zest of 
1⁄2 lemon
1  cup olive oilSaltParsley Sauce:
1  teaspoon soy sauce, or more to taste1  cup packed fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley leaves
1  cup packed fresh spinach leaves
1⁄4 cup olive oil
To Se rve:
1  pound beef sirloin steak with some 
marbling
1  cup watercress leaves2 tablespoons capers, friedCoarse sea salt1  small package crisp ﬂ  atbread chips
For the Shiitake Broth: 
  In a small saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the shallot, garlic, and 
mushroom trimmings; sauté for about 3 minutes, until just beginning to soften. Add the stock and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for 20 minutes. Season with salt to taste.
For the Mayonnaise:
  Put the egg and the lemon juice and zest in a blender and blend on high speed until combined. With the motor running, add the oil in a thin stream through the hole in the lid. Season with salt to taste.
For the Parsley Sauce:
  Put all the ingredients in a mini food processor and process to combine, stopping the motor and scraping down the sides once or twice. Add more soy sauce if necessary. 
To Se rve:
 1. Using a very sharp knife, slice the beef paper-thin. Lay each slice ﬂ  at and put 1 
watercress leaf in the center. Top with a small dollop of the mayonnaise and roll the beef into a cone shape. 
 2. Spoon some broth into 15 to 20 Chinese soupspoons. Place the rolled beef in the 
broth, spoon a bit of the parsley sauce over the beef, and garnish with capers. Sprinkle lightly with sea salt. Serve immediately with ﬂ  atbread chips.CHEF: Casey 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 10
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Ca ter an ultraexclusive party thrown by Pure nightclub.
45 minutes
Serves  15 to 20
Winner
HOW TO: 
Fry a Caper
To fry capers, rinse them well and 
pat dry with paper towels. In a small saucepan, heat about 1 inch of vegetable oil to 375°F, then add the capers. Fry for about 15 seconds, until crisp and browned. Remove with a slotted spoon and 
transfer to paper towels to drain.
APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATES     71CHEF: Dale
SEASON 3, EPISODE 14ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.
ROCCO DISPIRITO, CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR, GUEST JUDGE   “DALE’S DISH WAS FRIGGIN’ AMAZING.”1⁄3 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
1  tablespoon minced fresh tarragon
2 tablespoons rice vinegar1 
1⁄2 teaspoons grated lemon zest
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1⁄2 cup halved white grapes1  small fennel bulb, trimmed4 U/10 dry-pack sea scallops3 tablespoons olive oil
1⁄2 cup purslane, thick stems removed
About 2 tablespoons freeze-dried 
sweet corn
Fresh tarragon sprigs for garnish
 1. In a medium bowl, combine the 1⁄3 cup extra-virgin olive oil, minced tarragon, vinegar, 
and lemon zest. Season generously with salt and pepper to taste and add the grapes, 
tossing to coat them with the marinade. Set aside.
 2. Cut the fennel in half lengthwise and remove the tough inner core. Thinly shave the 
fennel using a mandoline or a very sharp knife. Set aside.
 3. Remove the small side muscle from each scallop. Rinse the scallops under cold 
water and pat dry. Lightly season on both sides with salt and pepper. 
 4. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over high heat. Add the scallops and 
cook without turning for about 3 minutes, until crisp and well browned on the bot-tom. Using a thin metal spatula, turn the scallops over and cook for 2 to 3 minutes on the second side, until browned on the bottom but still slightly translucent in the center. Transfer to a plate.
 5. Using a slotted spoon, remove the grapes from the marinade and toss them with the 
fennel and purslane; spoon some of the marinade over the salad and toss to coat. Taste and add more of the marinade or salt and pepper as necessary. Divide the 
salad among 4 serving plates. Place 1 scallop on top of each salad and garnish with the corn and tarragon sprigs. Serve immediately.40 minutes
Serv es 4
WHAT ARE . . . 
Sea Scallops?
Sea scallops are much larger 
than the more common bay scallops—“U/10” means that there are fewer than 10 scallops per pound. Seared Scallops  
with Purslane and Marinated Grapes 
72    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESAPPETIZERS     73CHEF: Hung 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 8
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: T urn an empty space into a restaurant in 24 hours.
Tuna:
8 ounces top-quality tuna steak, diced
1  tablespoon chopped fresh chives Large pinch of paprika Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Egg Vinaigrette:1  large hard-boiled egg, ﬁ  nely chopped 
2 tablespoons mayonnaise1 
1⁄2 tablespoons sherry vinegar
1⁄2 teaspoon sugar
1⁄2 teaspoon salt White Asparagus:
1⁄2 bunch white asparagus, tips only
1  small shallot, minced1  tablespoon sherry vinegarSalt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
To Se rve:
6 black Niçoise olives, pitted and ﬁ  nely 
chopped
Large pinch of paprika
4 slices toasted brioche
For the Tuna:
  In a medium bowl, toss together the tuna, chives, paprika, and salt and pepper 
to taste.
For the Egg Vinaigrette:
  In a small bowl, combine all the ingredients.
For the White Asparagus:
 1. In a small saucepan of boiling water, blanch the asparagus for 30 seconds to 1 minute, until just tender. Drain and transfer to a bowl of ice water to cool. Drain.
 2. In a small bowl, whisk together the shallot, vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. 
Add the oil in a thin stream and whisk to combine. 
 3. Add the asparagus and toss to coat with the dressing.
To Se rve:
  On each of 4 serving plates, make a small pile of the olives. Top with the tuna mix-ture and spoon some of the egg vinaigrette next to the tuna. Place a few aspara-gus tips on the plate. Sprinkle each serving with a bit of paprika and set a slice of toasted brioche on each plate. Serve immediately.
DANIEL BOULUD, CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR, GUEST JUDGE    “I THINK IT’S A REAL BISTRO DISH, 
A BEAUTIFUL PLATE.”35 minutes
Serves  4
“This was very, 
very delicate and 
subtle. A smart thing to do if you have Daniel Boulud sitting in your restaurant.”
TED ALLEN, JUDGETuna Tartare  
with Niçoise Olives, White Asparagus, and Egg Vinaigrette 
APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATES     73CHEF: M arcel 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 7
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create an uncooked entrée out of farmers’ market produce. 
 1. Using a sharp knife, cut the ends off the watermelon and stand it upright. Cut all of 
the rind off the watermelon, leaving the ﬂ  esh in one piece. Cut crosswise into four 
1 1⁄2-inch-thick rounds. Using a biscuit cutter or another 1 1⁄2- to 2-inch-diameter 
round cutter, cut a “steak” from the center of each slice. Season the steaks with 
salt and put one on each of 4 serving plates; set aside in the refrigerator to chill.
 2. Cut the ends off the large tomato and save. Cut the tomato into 4 slices. Place 
1 tomato round on top of each watermelon steak.
 3. In a blender, puree 2 cups of the remaining watermelon ﬂ  esh with the heirloom 
tomato trimmings and 3⁄4 cup of the cherry tomatoes. Season to taste with salt and 
sugar, then pour the liquid through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a 2-cup measure. 
 4. Return half of the liquid to the blender and add the oil and salt and pepper to taste. 
(Put the other half in the refrigerator to chill.) Blend to combine, then add the vin-egar and blend again. Taste the dressing and add more salt or vinegar as necessary.
 5. Cut the remaining cherry tomatoes in half and put them in a medium bowl with the 
chiffonade of basil and enough of the dressing to coat the tomatoes. Toss together well, then divide the cherry tomato salad among the 4 serving plates. Garnish with nasturtium leaves, opal basil sprigs, and bee pollen. Sprinkle with ﬂ  eur de sel.
 6. Pour the reserved watermelon-tomato puree into 4 small glasses or cups and serve 
alongside the watermelon steaks and salad.1  small seedless watermelon
Salt
1  large heirloom tomato  1  pint cherry tomatoesPinch of sugar, or more to taste 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oilFreshly ground black pepper 1  tablespoon champagne vinegar, or more 
to taste
2 large sprigs opal basil, cut into chiffon-
ade, plus small sprigs for garnish
Nasturtium leaves for garnish Bee pollen for garnishFleur de sel
“If you buy the right 
ingredients, you 
don’t really need to cook them; they taste really good 
as they are.”
MARCEL30 minutes
Serv es 4
WinnerWatermelon and Tomato Trio
Watermelon Steak, Tomato Salad, and Watermelon Refresher 
74    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESHam and Cheese Mini Quiches 
with Pesto
CHEF: Fr ank 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 4
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create an amuse-bouche using ingredients from a vending machine.
Ham and Cheese Quiche:
Unsalted butter for the mufﬁ  n tin
Six 1 1⁄2-inch toast rounds or crostini
2 large eggs2 tablespoons heavy creamSalt and freshly ground black pepper
2 slices ham, diced2 slices Swiss cheese, dicedPesto:
1  large garlic clove
1⁄4 cup pine nuts
1⁄3 cup coarsely grated Parmesan cheese
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 1⁄2 cups loosely packed fresh basil
1⁄3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
For the Ham and Cheese Quiche:
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Butter a 6-hole mufﬁ  n tin and place the toast rounds in 
the mufﬁ  n holes.
 2. In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs and cream. Season with salt and pepper to 
taste and add the ham and cheese. Divide the batter among the mufﬁ  n holes and 
bake until the quiches are just set in the middle, 12 to 15 minutes. Loosen the sides 
of the quiches with a butter knife, then invert the pan to release the quiches.
For the Pesto:
  With a food processor running, drop the garlic through the feed tube to mince. Stop the motor and add the pine nuts, cheese, salt and pepper to taste, and basil. Process until ﬁ  nely chopped, then, with the motor running, slowly add the oil in a thin stream 
through the hole in the lid, processing until incorporated. Transfer to a bowl.
To Se rve:
  Place the quiches on serving plates and top with the pesto. Serve immediately.45 minutes
Serv es 6
HOW TO: 
Make the 
Perfect Quiche
Though this recipe is easy to 
pull off, some attempts at mak-ing quiche can result in an over-done or soggy mess (just ask Frank). Follow these rules and 
you’ll enjoy your quiche just as the French have for the past 500 years. 
1. Fully prebake your crust—
make sure it’s crisp so your ﬁ  nal 
product stays crisp. 
2. Do not overcook—overcooking 
will turn your eggs into rubber, so watch your quiche carefully. When it’s done, the center should still be a bit liquidy. The eggs will continue to set as they cool.
3. Cool properly—always cool on 
a wire rack to help prevent con-densation from gathering around the bottom, avoiding the dreaded soggy quiche. 
4. Don’t skimp on ingredients—
quiche is supposed to be rich and creamy. Make it with whole milk and cream.
76    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESAPPETIZERS     77Braised Pork Shoulder  
with Tomato Marmalade
CHEFS: Sam, Ilan, Marcel, Betty (Orange Team)
SEASON 2, EPISODE 8
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Ca ter a holiday party for Los Angeles  magazine.
Pork: 
One 3- to 5-pound pork shoulder roast
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 tablespoons olive oil1  carrot, peeled and diced2 celery ribs, diced1  onion, diced4 garlic cloves, minced1  tablespoon Chinese ﬁ  ve-spice powder
1⁄2 cup fresh orange juice
1  cup red wine vinegar1  cup demi-glace or beef stockTomato Marmalade:
1  pint cherry tomatoes, halved
1⁄2 cup sugar
1⁄3 cup sherry vinegar
2 garlic cloves, ﬁ  nely chopped
2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil 1  scallion, thinly sliced1  teaspoon capers, drained1  teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
To Se rve:
24 three-inch round slices bread; or 
12 small dinner rolls, split in half
For the Pork:
 1. Preheat the oven to 200°F. Generously season the pork with salt and pepper.
 2. In a large, nonreactive, ovenproof pot with a tight-ﬁ  tting lid, heat the oil over high 
heat. Add the pork and cook until well browned on all sides, about 10 minutes total.
 3. Remove the pork from the pot and set aside. Add the carrot, celery, onion, garlic, and 
ﬁ ve-spice powder to the pot. Stir well to combine and cook over medium heat until 
the vegetables have softened and are beginning to brown, about 8 minutes.
 4. In a medium bowl, combine the orange juice, vinegar, and demi-glace.
 5. Place the pork on top of the vegetables and pour the orange juice mixture on top. 
Cover the pot and put it in the oven.
 6. Cook for 8 to 10 hours, until the pork is falling apart and very tender. Remove from 
the oven. Using tongs, remove the pork from the cooking juices and let cool until 
warm. Shred the meat using your ﬁ  ngers or a fork. Spoon some of the cooking juices 
over the meat and season with salt and pepper to taste.
For the Tomato Marmalade:
 1. In a medium saucepan, combine the tomatoes and sugar. Place over medium heat 
and cook, stirring frequently, until the sugar is dissolved.
 2. Add the vinegar, garlic, basil, scallion, capers, and red pepper ﬂ  akes. Bring to a brisk 
simmer and cook, stirring frequently, for about 20 minutes, until the marmalade is syrupy and thick. Season with salt and pepper to taste and remove from the heat.
To Se rve:
 1. Put the bread rounds on a baking sheet and toast them under the broiler or grill 
them lightly.
 2. Pile the pork onto the toasts. Top each with a bit of the marmalade and serve.More than 8 hours
Serves  6
Winner
WHAT IS . . . 
Braising
Slow cooking with a little liquid in a covered pot, braising can bring out the tenderness in the toughest cuts of meat. Steady heat breaks down connective tissue while the meat and bone release their deepest, richest ﬂ avors. The key points are to 
brown the meat before braising and then keep a lid on tight to seal in the cooking liquid. 
APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATES     77Poached Baby Manila Clams
over Grilled Sea Beans
CHEF: S tephen
SEASON 1, EPISODE 6 
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create an appetizer using limited ingredients Ted Allen preselects.
Juice of 1 maroon carrot
1  teaspoon fresh ginger juice6 sea beans6 baby Manila clams, scrubbed1  teaspoon ground Marcona almonds 2 pinches of chili powder2 pinches of sea salt6 fresh cilantro leaves
 1. In a small saucepan, combine the carrot juice with the ginger juice and place over 
medium-high heat. Cook, stirring, until reduced to a syrup, about 2 minutes. Watch 
carefully, as reducing a small quantity goes very quickly. Pour into a small bowl and set aside.
 2. To grill the sea beans, heat a lightly greased grill pan over medium heat until hot. Add 
the beans and cook until lightly browned, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.
 3. Place a small amount of water in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil. Add the 
clams, reduce the heat to a simmer, cover, and cook until the clams open, about 2 minutes. Discard any unopened clams.
 4. Drain the clams, remove them from their shells, and pat dry with paper towels. 
 5. Sauce the plates decoratively with the carrot reduction. Arrange the clams over the 
sea beans on the plates and dust each plate with the ground almonds, chili powder, and salt. Top with the cilantro leaves and serve immediately.WHAT ARE . . . 
Maroon Carrots 
and Marcona Almonds?
Maroon carrots are a sweet 
variety with a maroon or purple 
skin and orange ﬂ  esh. Your local 
farmers’ market or specialty grocer is your best bet for ﬁ nding them. 
Marcona almonds (pronounced “mar-SO-nah”) come from Spain and are rounder, softer, and sweeter than typical almonds. You’ll ﬁ  nd these at a specialty 
grocer as well.
STEPHEN    “MY STYLE OF CUISINE IS KIND OF OUTSIDE THE BOUNDARIES, TAKING DIFFERENT FLAVOR COMBINA-
TIONS THAT TRADITIONALLY AREN’T USED.”30 minutesServ es 2
Winner
78    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESBaked Escargot in Their Shells 
CHEF: Ilan
SEASON 2, EPISODE 1
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a dish using all the ingredients in a closed crate.
12 snails in their shells
2 tablespoons unsalted butter1  shallot, ﬁ  nely chopped
6 garlic cloves, ﬁ  nely chopped
2 canned artichoke hearts, drained and 
ﬁ nely chopped1⁄4 cup ﬁ  nely chopped cocktail peanuts
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
3⁄4 cup milk
4 slices American cheese, ﬁ  nely chopped
1  russet potato, peeled and cut into large 
chunks
 1. Soak the snails in enough water to cover for 1 hour, stirring occasionally and chang-
ing the water every 15 minutes. Drain.
 2. Put the snails in a medium saucepan and pour in fresh water to cover. Place over 
medium-high heat and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for 5 minutes, 
or until you can pull a snail from its shell by pricking it with a pin. Drain, cool slightly, then remove all the snails from their shells and reserve the shells. Finely chop the snails.
 3. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
 4. Heat 1 tablespoon of the butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the shallot,
5 of the garlic cloves, the artichokes, and snails and sauté until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the peanuts and cook until golden, about 5 minutes more. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
 5. Put the milk in a small saucepan over medium heat, add the remaining garlic clove, 
and season with salt. Bring just to a boil, then add half of the cheese. Whisk until the cheese is melted, then remove from the heat. 
 6. Meanwhile, place the potato in a medium pot ﬁ  lled with water and add salt. Place 
over medium-high heat, bring to a boil, then lower the heat and simmer for about 15 minutes, or until tender when pierced with a fork. Drain and place in a large bowl. Mash the potato and, as it starts to get nice and ﬂ  uffy, fold in the sautéed snail 
mixture along with about 
1⁄4 cup of the milk-cheese mixture, enough to make the 
potatoes creamy.
 7. Stuff the potato-snail mixture into the snail shells (you can scoop any remaining ﬁ lling alongside) and bake for 15 minutes, or until bubbly.
 8. While the snails are in the oven, return the saucepan with the milk and cheese to 
low heat. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon butter and the remaining cheese, whisking until the cheese melts.
 9. Pour the cheese sauce on top of the snails and serve piping hot.1 hour, plus soaking 1 hour 
Serv es 4
Winner
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE “HE MADE THE INGREDIENTS BETTER BY PUTTING THEM TOGETHER.”“It was tight, clean, 
and Ilan should be 
damn proud of it.”
CLIFF
80    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESAPPETIZERS     81Morcilla and Squid Lau Lau 
CHEF: Ilan
SEASON 2, EPISODE 12
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: R ethink two classic Hawaiian dishes.
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE    “IF THE SPANISH HAD ARRIVED 300 YEARS AGO TO THIS ISLAND AND BROUGHT 
THEIR CUISINE, THIS WOULD HAVE BEEN A PERFECT MARRIAGE OF THE TWO CULTURES. I REALLY, REALLY 
ENJOYED THAT DISH.”WHAT ARE . . . 
Lau Lau 
and Morcilla?
Lau lau (pronounced “LAOW-
LAOW”) is a Hawaiian dish typi-
cally consisting of pork and ﬁ  sh 
wrapped in banana leaves and steamed or grilled.
Morcilla (pronounced “more-
SEE-yah”) is a Spanish blood sausage, usually made with pork and rice. You can use fresh morcilla if dried is unavailable.2 tablespoons salt, plus more to taste 4 taro leaves1  tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil1  onion, diced2 dried morcilla sausages, cut into 
1⁄4-inch cubes1⁄2 teaspoon smoked Spanish paprika, 
or more to taste
Freshly ground black pepper 
1  large banana leaf2 large squid, bodies only, cleaned and cut 
into 
1⁄4-inch rings
 1. Fill a large pot with water and 2 tablespoons salt. Add the taro leaves. Bring to a boil 
and cook for 2 hours. Drain well. Set aside and let the leaves cool to room tempera-
ture. Taro leaves must be cooked for at least 2 hours, to cook out toxins that may cause an allergic reaction in the throat.
 2. In a large skillet, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the onion and cook until 
soft, about 5 minutes. Add the sausage and reduce the heat to low. Cook until the sausage is beginning to soften, about 15 minutes. Add the smoked paprika and stir to combine. Season with salt, pepper, and more smoked paprika to taste—the mixture should be very highly seasoned, as it will mellow as it’s grilled.
 3. Preheat a charcoal grill and set the grate about 8 inches above the coals. 
 4. On a work surface, spread out the banana leaf and cut it into 4 pieces, each about 
6 by 10 inches. Divide the onion and sausage mixture among the banana leaves. Top with the squid rings. Top each portion with a cooked taro leaf. Wrap each bundle: fold the long sides over the ﬁ  lling, then fold the ends up. Secure with toothpicks or 
tie the bundles with string like a package.
 5. When the ﬂ  ames have died down and the coals are white, put the bundles on the 
grill, sausage side down. Cover the grill and cook for 5 minutes. Remove from the grill and serve immediately, letting your guests unwrap the bundles at the table.
  2 hours, 30 minutes
Serves  4
Winner
APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATES     81APPETIZERS     83
Hamachi Poke  
with Pineapple Poi and Taro Chips 
Hamachi Poke:
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil2 tablespoons sake2 tablespoons mirin3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice1  teaspoon grated fresh ginger1  tablespoon ﬁ  nely chopped Maui or other 
white onion
Sea salt (preferably Hawaiian)
Freshly ground black pepper
1  pound sashimi-grade hamachi (yellow-
tail), skin and excess fat removed and cut 
into 
1⁄2-inch cubes (to yield about 2 cups)
1⁄4 cup chopped sea beansPineapple Poi:2 teaspoons xanthan gum4 cups fresh pineapple chunks
Taro Chips:
1  small taro root
Vegetable oil for frying
Salt
For the Hamachi Poke:
 1. In a medium nonreactive bowl, combine the oil, sake, mirin, lemon juice, ginger, and 
onion. Whisk together. Season with salt and pepper to taste (keeping in mind that 
the sea beans will be salty). 
 2. Add the hamachi and sea beans. Gently toss with a rubber spatula to completely 
coat the ﬁ  sh and sea beans with the marinade. Cover and refrigerate for at least 
1 hour for the ﬂ  avors to combine while you make the pineapple poi and taro chips.
For the Pineapple Poi:
 1. Place 1⁄4 cup water in a blender, followed by the xanthan gum. Add the pineapple 
chunks and blend on high speed until the pineapple is pureed and the mixture is smooth with a slightly sticky consistency. 
 2. Transfer to a container, cover, and refrigerate until ready to use.
For the Taro Chips:
 1. Peel the taro root and slice very thinly with a sharp knife or mandoline. Place the 
slices in a large bowl of cold water to keep them from discoloring.
 2. In a large heavy pot, heat about 3 inches of oil to 350°F.
 3. Drain the taro slices and pat dry completely. Add the slices to the hot oil in batches, 
being careful not to overcrowd the pot. Fry until crisp and lightly golden, about 2 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon and transfer to paper towels to drain. Sprinkle with salt. Cool completely before serving.
To Se rve:
  Place large spoonfuls of the pineapple poi on serving dishes. Using a slotted spoon, ladle the hamachi poke over the pineapple and sprinkle with sea salt. Place a couple of taro chips alongside.WHAT ARE . . . 
Poke and Poi?
Poke (pronounced “PO-keh”) is a 
Hawaiian ﬁ  sh salad, usually raw, 
served as an appetizer.
Poi (pronounced “POY”) is tradi-
tionally made of taro root cooked 
and pounded to a sticky paste. Here the “poi” is made with pineapple, with xanthan gum giving it its sticky quality, and the taro is made into a chip served 
alongside.CHEF: M arcel 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 12
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Ret hink two classic Hawaiian dishes.
50 minutes, plus marinating 1 hour 
Serves  6
Winner
APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATES     83Deep-Fried Oysters
 with Lemon Cream
CHEF: Lee Anne
SEASON 1, EPISODE 6
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create an appetizer using the limited ingredients Ted Allen preselects.
18 fresh oysters
2 cups heavy cream1 
1⁄2 teaspoons lemon juice, or to taste
1 1⁄2 teaspoons grated lemon zest
1  tablespoon grated Parmesan cheeseSalt and freshly ground white pepper
4 slices bacon 1  plum tomato, peeled, cored, and ﬁ  nely 
diced1⁄2 shallot, ﬁ  nely minced
3 tablespoons diced sea beans2 teaspoons ﬁ  nely minced fresh ﬂ  at-leaf 
parsley
1  teaspoon extra-virgin olive oilVegetable oil for frying
3⁄4 cup all-purpose ﬂ  our 
1  cup club sodaCoarse salt for serving
 1. Shuck the oysters, removing them completely from their shells into a bowl, along 
with their juices. Reserve the bottom halves of the oyster shells and rinse under hot 
water to clean. Dry the shells and set aside. Strain the oyster liquid through a ﬁ  ne-
mesh sieve and set aside. Refrigerate the oysters, covered, until ready to fry.
 2. In a small saucepan, heat the cream over medium heat and bring to a simmer. 
Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer until the cream is reduced by about 
two-thirds, about 1 hour. Remove from the heat, strain if a skin forms on the surface of the cream, and return to the pan. Add the lemon juice, lemon zest, and cheese. Season with salt and white pepper to taste. Cover and set aside until ready to serve. 
Gently reheat before serving if needed.
 3. Put the bacon in a medium skillet over medium heat. Cook until crisp on both sides, 
about 5 minutes. Transfer to paper towels to drain and cool slightly, then crumble the bacon. Set aside until ready to serve.
 4. In a small bowl, combine the tomato, shallot, sea beans, and parsley. Add the extra-
virgin oil and stir to coat. 
 5. In a medium, heavy pot, heat 2 to 3 inches of vegetable oil over medium-high heat to 
375°F. Put the ﬂ  our in a medium bowl and whisk in just enough club soda to make a 
fairly smooth paste (a few lumps are OK), then add the remaining club soda. 
 6. One at a time, dip the oysters into the batter, letting excess drip off. Then, working in 
small batches, gently place the oysters in the oil. Fry until the oysters are puffed and golden brown, about 30 seconds. Remove with a slotted spoon and transfer to paper towels to drain. Sprinkle with salt.
 7. To serve, form 3 small mounds of coarse salt on each of 6 serving plates to make 
little platforms for the oysters. Moisten with a little water and place the reserved oyster shells on the mounds. Place a fried oyster in each shell and spoon a teaspoon of the warm lemon cream over each one. Top with the tomato mixture and sprinkle with the crumbled bacon. Serve immediately.45 minutes
Serv es 6
“It’s a classic, 
but you’ve given 
it a nice twist. Are you trying to seduce me?”
TED ALLEN, GUEST JUDGE
84    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESAPPETIZERS     85CHEF: Cliff 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 2
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a sushi dish for master sushi chef Hiroshi Shima.Hama Hama Oysters with Mango 
and Split Prawns, Hamachi, and Daikon
Hama Hama Oysters with Mango:
4 hama hama oysters
1⁄2 teaspoon soy sauce
1⁄2 teaspoon mirin
1  teaspoon fresh lime juice1  tablespoon diced mango
1⁄2 teaspoon minced jalapeño chile
1  teaspoon minced shiso leavesSplit Prawns, Hamachi, and Daikon:1  teaspoon soy sauce1  teaspoon mirin
1⁄2 teaspoon sugar
1⁄4 teaspoon fresh ginger juice
1  teaspoon fresh lime juice
1⁄4 cup very thinly sliced daikon radish
2 prawns (jumbo shrimp), peeled, 
deveined, and butterﬂ  ied
Salt
3 ounces sashimi-grade hamachi, thinly 
sliced
For the Hama Hama Oysters with Mango:
 1. Shuck the oysters into a bowl and discard the top shells. Scrub the bottom shells 
and set aside on 2 plates. (See page 84, step 1.)
 2. In a small bowl, combine the soy sauce, mirin, lime juice, mango, jalapeño, and shiso 
leaves. Put the oysters with their juice in the mixture. Set aside for 5 minutes to 
marinate. 
 3. Spoon the oysters with their marinade onto the reserved shells.
For the Split Prawns, Hamachi, and Daikon:
 1. In a small bowl, combine the soy sauce, mirin, sugar, ginger juice, and lime juice. 
Whisk to dissolve the sugar. Add the daikon and set aside for 5 minutes to marinate, then drain and squeeze out excess liquid.
 2. Fill a medium bowl with ice water and bring a small saucepan of water to a boil. 
Sprinkle the prawns with salt, add salt to the water, and poach the prawns for 2 to 
5 minutes, or until just cooked through. Drain, then transfer to the ice-water bath, 
drain again, and pat dry.
 3. Divide the hamachi between 2 serving plates, top with the daikon, and place a prawn 
on top. Serve alongside the oysters.
Note: 
  Hama hama oysters are a ﬁ  rm and mild variety found in Washington State; if you 
can’t ﬁ  nd them, any type of oyster can be substituted.
HIROSHI SHIMA, SUSHI CHEF, GUEST JUDGE    “EVEN WITH THE MANGO, THE OYSTERS STILL HAD THE FLAVOR OF 
THE OCEAN.”30 minutes
Serves  2
Winner
HOW TO: 
Choose an Oyster
Because oysters thrive in a variety of temperatures, they are 
found on both coasts: Atlantic oysters from Maine to Florida, and Paciﬁ  c oysters from Wash-
ington to California. A third type, Olympia, are found in Washing-ton’s Puget Sound. The ﬂ  at, or 
Belon, oyster, native to Europe, is now farmed in the United States. 
So how do you choose? If you live 
on a coast, choose an oyster na-
tive to your region. Also consider that the taste of oysters is de-termined by where and how they grow. Atlantic oysters tend to be briny and light with a ﬁ  rm ﬂ esh. 
Paciﬁ c oysters are creamier and 
smoother in ﬂ  avor. The Olympia 
oyster, a tiny one, is often salty with a metallic taste. The ﬂ  at 
oyster, prized for its outstanding ﬂ avor, can be quite pricey. Do 
a little taste-testing and you’ll come to recognize your favorites.
APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATES     85Olive Oil–Poached Shrimp  
with Avocado and Cucumber, Lime, and Grilled Pepper Salad
2 tablespoons coriander seeds, crushed
1  tablespoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
One 750-ml bottle olive oil1  lime
1⁄2 cup sugar
1 1⁄2 teaspoons cornstarch
Salt
1⁄3 English cucumber1  large poblano chile2 tablespoons minced fresh cilantroZest and juice of 1 Meyer lemon
Juice of 
1⁄2 navel orange
1  tablespoon sherry vinegar1  vine-ripened tomato8 large shrimp, peeled and deveined2 Hass avocados
 1. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, toast the coriander seeds and red 
pepper ﬂ  akes until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add the oil. Heat until just hot to the 
touch, then remove from the heat and let steep for 10 minutes. Strain through a 
sieve lined with cheesecloth and transfer to a medium saucepan.
 2. Using a vegetable peeler, remove the zest of the lime, then trim off any white pith. 
(Reserve the lime.) Cut the zest into very ﬁ  ne dice, put it in a small saucepan, and 
cover with cold water. Bring to a boil, then immediately drain in a sieve. Return the zest to the pan, cover with cold water again, bring to a boil, then drain. In the sauce-pan, combine the sugar and 
1⁄2 cup water. Add the zest and bring to a boil over high 
heat. Remove from the heat and let the syrup cool.
 3. Pour the syrup through a sieve set over a clean saucepan; set the candied zest aside 
in a small bowl. Combine the cornstarch and 1 1⁄2 teaspoons water. Stir the corn-
starch slurry into the syrup and add 1 teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil and cook until thickened, about 3 minutes. Let cool.
 4. Cut the cucumber in half and scrape out the seeds. Cut the cucumber, peel included, 
into very ﬁ  ne dice and put in the bowl with the candied zest.
 5. Roast the chile directly over a gas ﬂ  ame, turning with tongs until all sides are lightly 
charred. Place the chile in a heat-proof bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside for 20 minutes. Remove the blackened skin, seeds, and stems. Cut the bright green parts into very ﬁ  ne dice, to make 2 tablespoons. Add to the cucumber mixture, along 
with the juice of half the reserved lime (reserve the remaining lime for another use), 
1⁄2 teaspoon of the infused oil, the cilantro, and salt to taste. Set the salad aside.
 6. In a small bowl, combine the lemon zest and juice, orange juice, vinegar, and salt to 
taste. Slice the tomato into 8 thin wedges and add to the marinade. Set aside.
 7. Warm the remaining infused oil over low heat. Sprinkle the shrimp with salt and add 
them to the oil—it should not be hot enough to sputter. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, turning once, until ﬁ  rm. Transfer the shrimp to paper towels to drain.
 8. Peel and thinly slice the avocados. Lightly brush some of the lime syrup onto each 
of 8 serving plates. Place a shrimp on one side of the brushstroke. Place avocado slices next to the shrimp. Put 1 wedge of marinated tomato between the shrimp and avocado. Using a slotted spoon to drain excess liquid from the cucumber salad, place a small line of the salad next to the avocado. Serve immediately.CHEF: Lia
SEASON 3, EPISODE 4ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: In teams of three, create a trio of one ingredient.
40 minutes
Serv es 8
Winner
“You don’t get 
shrimp poached 
in olive oil every day. I think this was a nice way to handle it.”
TED ALLEN, JUDGE
86    APPETIZERS AND SMALL PLATESEntrées: Meat
1009591
Dale’s  Colorado Rack of Lamb 
with Ratatouille and Sauce Vert 
Stephanie’s Roasted Lamb Medallions
with Maitake Mushrooms, Braised Pistachios, and Blackberry
Tre’s Bacon-Wrapped Shrimp 
with Cheese Grits and Chipotle-Tomato Butter Sauce
Dave’s  Salami and Gouda Panini 
on a Sun-Dried Tomato Roll
Sam’s  Sweetbread and Scallion Beignets 
with Chinese Five-Spice, in Soy Broth
Howie’s  Braised Pork Shoulder
in Sour Orange Mojo with Yucca and Pickled Onions
Harold’s  Duo of Beef 
with Kobe Strip Loin and Braised Kobe Short Ribs, with White Polenta
Frank’s  Prosciutto and Cheese Pizza
Howie’s  Black Trufﬂ  e Burger
with Taleggio Cheese, Tomato, and Radicchio91
92
93
95
96
97
98
100
102117114106
Lee Anne and Stephen’s  Corn Sopes 
with Char Siu Pork and Pickled Asian Slaw
Dale’s  Seared Elk Loin 
with Cauliﬂ  ower and Fingerling Potato Mash, and Pickled Cauliﬂ  ower
Dave and Tiffani’s  Moroccan Cubanos
Harold’s  Prime New York Strip Steaks
with Foie Gras Sauce and Parsnip Puree
Team Korea’s  Spicy Braised Korean Pork 
with Kim Chee and Sticky Rice
Stephen’s  Threesome of Colorado Lamb
Howie’s  Fennel-Crusted Pork Chops 
with Three-Apple Fennel Salad and Apple Cider Sauce
Casey’s  Veal Medallions 
with Cremini and Apple Brandy, with Cauliﬂ  ower Gratin
Marcel’s  Curried Lamb Kabobs103
104
106
108
109
110
113
114
117APPETIZERS     91ENTRÉES: MEAT     91Colorado Rack of Lamb  
with Ratatouille and Sauce Vert 
CHEF: D ale 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 14
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.
2 small bunches fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley, 
stemmed
10 fresh thyme sprigs
18 garlic cloves1  tablespoon whole peppercorns, crushedOne 1 
1⁄2-pound Colorado rack of lamb 
(with 6 to 8 bones), chine bone removed, 
frenched
20 cured white anchovy ﬁ  llets, or 10 to 15 
regular anchovy ﬁ  llets
1⁄2 cup extra-virgin olive oil Juice and grated zest of 1 lemon
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
6 tablespoons olive oil1  eggplant, peeled and cut into 1-inch 
cubes
1  onion, choppedAbout 3 
1⁄2 pounds duck fat (enough to 
submerge the rack of lamb)
1  pint cherry tomatoes2 fresh basil sprigs1  zucchini, very ﬁ  nely diced
 1. Finely chop 1 bunch of the parsley, the thyme, and 10 cloves of the garlic and com-
bine with the crushed peppercorns. Coat the lamb with the herb mixture, cover, and 
let sit in the refrigerator overnight.
 2. Finely chop the remaining 1 bunch parsley and 6 cloves of the garlic and put them 
in a small bowl. Mince the anchovies, mashing them to a paste, and add them to the bowl, along with the 
1⁄2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, the lemon juice and zest, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Cover and let sit in the refrigerator overnight. The next day, 
bring the anchovy sauce to room temperature, taste, and add more salt and pepper as necessary.
 3. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 2 tablespoons oil over medium heat. Add the 
eggplant and onion and cook, stirring frequently, until very soft, about 20 minutes. In a food processor, puree the eggplant and onion, then season with salt and pepper to taste and set aside. 
 4. Put the duck fat in a pot large enough to contain the whole rack laid on its side. Melt 
the fat over low heat. Season with salt to taste. Scrape the herbs off the lamb and into the fat. Add half of the anchovy sauce. Increase the heat and bring to a soft boil. 
 5. Meanwhile, in a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 2 tablespoons oil over high heat. Add 
the lamb and sear until well browned on both sides, 6 to 8 minutes total. 
 6. Remove the duck fat from the heat and immediately submerge the lamb in the fat. 
Let the lamb sit in the fat for 30 minutes for rare, 45 minutes for medium-rare. 
 7. While the lamb is submerged in the fat, warm 2 tablespoons oil in a small sauté pan or skillet over medium-low heat. Add the tomatoes, basil, and the remaining 2 cloves garlic and cook for 10 to 12 minutes, until tomatoes are soft but still hold their shape.
 8. When the lamb is done, use tongs to lift it out of the fat and let it drain slightly on a 
baking sheet lined with paper towels.
 9. Divide the eggplant puree among 2 to 4 serving plates. Top each serving with a few tomatoes and a small pile of the raw zucchini. Slice the lamb between the bones and place 2 or 3 chops over the zucchini on each plate. Spoon some of the remaining sauce over the chops and serve immediately.TIMESAVER !
Make the sauce and start 
marinating the lamb a day in advance. The eggplant puree can also be made the day before and reheated just before serving.More than 3 hours, 
plus marinating overnight
Serves  2 to 492    ENTRÉES: MEATRoasted Lamb Medallions 
with Maitake Mushrooms, Braised Pistachios, and Blackberry 
CHEF: S tephanie
SEASON 4, EPISODE 14
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a classic four-course tasting menu.
2 racks of lamb (about 1 3⁄4 pounds each)
1⁄4 cup yellow miso paste
1  teaspoon dried thyme
1⁄2 onion, diced
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1⁄2 cup red wine
2 cups low-sodium chicken stock
1  pint blackberries1  cup white balsamic vinegar1⁄4 cup sugar
1⁄2 cup shelled pistachios
1  small shallot, minced (2 tablespoons)
1⁄3 cup manzanilla olives, minced 
(2 tablespoons)
2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 tablespoon unsalted butter
1  pound maitake mushrooms, cleaned 
well and broken into bite-size chunks
 1. With a sharp knife, cut the loin meat from the bones of each rack, leaving it in one 
piece and reserving the bones of one of the racks. Remove any excess fat and trim 
the silverskin from the loins. Rub with the miso and sprinkle with the thyme. Cover and let marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours and up to overnight.
 2. Cut between the rib bones to separate them. Heat a large saucepan over high heat, 
add the bones, and cook until well browned on all sides, about 8 minutes. Remove the bones to a plate and drain all but 1 tablespoon of the fat from the pan. Add the onion and garlic and sauté over medium-high heat until browned, about 5 minutes. Add the wine and stir to scrape up any browned bits. Simmer until reduced by half, about 5 minutes. Add 1 
1⁄2 cups of the stock, half of the blackberries, and the lamb 
bones. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and simmer until thick, about 40 minutes. Pour through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a small saucepan and cover to keep warm.
 3. Put the remaining 
1⁄2 pint blackberries, the vinegar, and sugar in a small nonreactive 
saucepan. Bring to a boil, stirring, then simmer until the sauce is thick and syrupy, about 15 minutes. Pour through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a small bowl and set aside.
4.  Put the pistachios and the remaining 
1⁄2 cup stock in a small saucepan, season with 
salt and pepper to taste, and simmer until soft, 8 to 10 minutes. Set aside.
5.  In a small bowl, combine the shallot, olives, and 1 teaspoon of the oil. Set aside.
6.  Preheat the oven to 450°F. Scrape the miso paste off the lamb loins. In a heavy skil-
let over high heat, cook the lamb until well browned on all sides, about 6 minutes. 
Transfer to a roasting pan and roast until the internal temperature registers 120 to 
130°F for rare to medium-rare, about 6 minutes. Remove to a cutting board and let rest for 10 minutes. Cut into 
1⁄2-inch-thick slices.
7.  While the lamb is resting, in a medium sauté pan, heat the remaining 1 teaspoon oil 
and the butter over medium-high heat. Add the mushrooms, season with salt and pepper to taste, and sauté until browned in spots and soft, about 10 minutes.
8.  Divide the mushrooms among 4 serving plates. Arrange the lamb slices on top and 
spoon some of the lamb sauce over them. Top with a small spoonful of the olive mixture, scatter some pistachios around the plate, and drizzle with the blackberry-vinegar syrup. Serve immediately.1 to 2 hours, plus 
marinating 4 hours 
Serv es 4
Winner
WHAT ARE . . .  
Maitake 
Mushrooms
Maitake mushrooms—also 
known as hen of the woods—are found all over the United States growing at the base of deciduous trees, but they can be difﬁ cult to ﬁ  nd in stores. Check 
specialty food stores and farm-ers’ markets, or substitute other mushrooms such as stemmed shiitakes, chanterelles, morels, roughly chopped portobello, or a combination (these mushrooms need cook only 5 to 6 minutes in the sauté pan).APPETIZERS     93ENTRÉES: MEAT     93
CHEF: T re
SEASON 3, EPISODE 7ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a snack for late-night Miami partiers.Bacon-Wrapped Shrimp  
with Cheese Grits and Chipotle-Tomato Butter Sauce
Chipotle-Tomato Butter Sauce:
1  tablespoon grapeseed oil
1⁄2 onion, chopped
3 garlic cloves, chopped4 plum tomatoes, chopped3 canned chipotle chiles in adobo sauce1  teaspoon whole black peppercorns1 
1⁄2 cups low-sodium chicken stock
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro
Juice of 1⁄2 lemon
Salt
Grits:2 cups low-sodium chicken stock2⁄3 cup milk
4 tablespoons unsalted butter2 cups instant grits1  cup grilled corn kernels
1⁄2 cup diced poblano chiles 
1⁄2 cup grated aged white Cheddar cheese
2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantroSalt and cracked black pepper
Shrimp: 9 thin slices bacon18 large black tiger shrimp, peeled 
and deveined 
2 teaspoons cracked black pepper2 tablespoons grapeseed oil
For the Chipotle-Tomato Butter Sauce: 
 1. In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and 
sauté until just starting to soften, about 4 minutes. Add the tomatoes, chipotles, and 
peppercorns. Cook, stirring, for 3 minutes. 
 2. Add the stock and bring to a brisk simmer. Cook for 5 minutes, then transfer to a 
blender and blend until smooth. Return the liquid to the saucepan and place over low heat. Whisk in 1 tablespoon of the butter at a time. Add the cilantro and lemon juice. Remove from the heat and let steep for 5 minutes. Season with salt to taste.Pour through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve set over a clean saucepan and cover to keep warm. 
For the Grits:
  In a large saucepan, combine the stock and milk. Bring to a simmer and add the but-ter. When the butter has melted, gradually whisk in the grits. When the grits begin to thicken, lower the heat. Fold in the corn, chiles, cheese, cilantro, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook, stirring gently, until the cheese is melted and the grits are thick. If the grits are too thick, add a bit of water or more stock. Cover and keep warm.
For the Shrimp:
 1. Cut the bacon slices in half crosswise. Wrap each shrimp with 
1⁄2 slice of bacon. 
Sprinkle with cracked black pepper. 
 2. Divide the oil between 2 medium sauté pans or skillets and heat over medium heat. 
Add the shrimp and cook until the shrimp is opaque and the bacon is crisp, turning frequently, 5 to 8 minutes. 
 3. Spoon a small mound of grits onto the center of each plate. Drizzle some of the 
sauce around the grits. Place 3 shrimp around the grits. Serve immediately.“Tre took a real 
classic comforty 
food like cheese grits and executed it beautifully. To top it all off, two words: Bay Con. I thought that dish was exquisite.”
TED ALLEN, JUDGE1 hour, 15 minutes
Serves  6
WinnerAPPETIZERS     95ENTRÉES: MEAT     95CHEF: Dave 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 11ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare room-service meals in thirty minutes or less.Salami and Gouda Panini  
on a Sun-Dried Tomato Roll
2 tablespoons orange-blossom honey
1  teaspoon dry mustard2 small sun-dried tomato rolls (or ciabatta-
type rolls), split in half 
8 thin slices Genoa salami8 thin slices sharp Gouda4 strips jarred roasted red bell pepper 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
 1. Heat a panini press according to the manufacturer’s directions until hot. 
(Alternatively, heat a ridged grill pan over medium heat.)
 2. In a small bowl, whisk together the honey and mustard and spread it over 2 of the 
bread halves. Top with 4 slices of salami, 4 slices of cheese, and 2 red pepper strips 
each and top with the other half of the roll.
 3. Brush the butter on the outside of the sandwiches, top and bottom.
 4. Put the sandwiches on the press, then pull down the top and cook until browned 
and crisp, 4 to 6 minutes. If you’re using a grill pan, place a heavy pan on top of the sandwiches and cook, pressing down on the pan and turning the sandwiches once.
 5. Cut the sandwiches in half and serve immediately.20 minutes
Serves  4
WHAT ARE . . . 
Salumi and 
Salami?
Not too long ago, it was simple: you’d order a pepperoni pizza or a salami on rye. These days you may ﬁ  nd yourself choosing from 
an array of boutique cured meats that requires a debrieﬁ  ng from 
your waiter. The ﬁ  rst thing to 
know is that salumi is not a mis-spelling of salami, but a general term referring to cured meats, usually pork or beef. Salami is a speciﬁ  c type of salumi. Many 
salamis are named for their region of origin, such as Genoa or Milano.96    ENTRÉES: MEATCHEF: Sam 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 5QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a dish using offal, the leftover parts of animals.Sweetbread and Scallion Beignets 
with Chinese Five-Spice, in Soy Broth
Batter: 
3 cups all-purpose ﬂ  our
1  tablespoon baking powder1  tablespoon baking soda1  tablespoon Chinese ﬁ  ve-spice powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 large eggs1  cup milk 1  bunch scallions, cut into 
1⁄4-inch slices
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Melted Onions:1  tablespoon unsalted butter1  red onion, thinly sliced
1⁄2 yellow onion, thinly sliced
1  carrot, diced
1⁄2 cup white wine
1⁄2 cup low-sodium chicken stock1⁄4 cup pitted kalamata olives
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Soy Broth:
1⁄2 cup soy sauce
1⁄2 cup Worcestershire sauce
1  tablespoon lavender seeds1  cinnamon stick1  cup veal demi-glace
To Se rve:
Vegetable oil for frying
1 
1⁄4 pounds veal sweetbreads, brined 
for 1 1⁄2 hours
1  tablespoon capers, drained
1⁄2 cup basil leaves, cut into chiffonade
1⁄4 cup chopped chives
For the Batter:
  In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, baking powder, baking soda, ﬁ  ve-spice powder, 
and cinnamon. Stir in the eggs, milk, 1 cup water, and the scallions. Add a pinch each 
of salt and pepper. Set aside in the refrigerator.
For the Melted Onions:
  In a medium sauté pan or skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the onions and carrot. Sauté until almost soft, about 4 minutes. Add the wine, stock, and olives. Cook until the vegetables are soft, 5 to 7 minutes. Add salt and pepper. Set aside.
For the Soy Broth: 
  In a small saucepan, combine all the ingredients with 2 
1⁄2 cups water. Simmer over 
low heat until fragrant and slightly reduced, about 20 minutes. Cover and remove from the heat; let steep for 10 minutes. Pour through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a sauce-
pan and cover to keep warm.
To Fry and Serve:
 1. In a large, heavy pot, heat 2 to 3 inches of oil to 350°F. 
 2. Drain the sweetbreads and cut them into 
1⁄2-inch pieces. Working in batches, dip the 
pieces in the batter, then carefully lower them into the hot oil. Cook, turning, until nicely browned, 5 to 8 minutes. Transfer to paper towels to drain.
 3. Dip the capers in the batter, drop them into the oil, and fry for 30 seconds. Drain.
 4. Divide the onions among shallow dishes and place the sweetbread beignets on top. 
Ladle the broth into the bowls and sprinkle with the basil, chives, and capers. Serve.45 minutes, plus brining 
1 1⁄2 hours
Serv es 4 to 6
Winner
HOW TO:
Brine 
Sweetbreads
Some chefs soak sweetbreads 
in cold water with a little lemon 
juice and then blanch them before getting to the heart of the recipe. Here, a simple brine will draw out any excess blood, ﬁ rm up the sweetbreads a bit, 
and impart ﬂ  avor all at once. No 
blanching is necessary.
3 cups milk
1⁄2 cup kosher salt
1⁄4 cup sugar
Combine all the ingredients in a large bowl and stir to dissolve the salt and sugar (this could take a few minutes). Add sweetbreads and refrigerate for 1 
1⁄2 hours.APPETIZERS     97Braised Pork Shoulder  
in Sour Orange Mojo with Yucca and Pickled Onions 
CHEF: Howie
SEASON 3, EPISODE 5ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a Latin lunch for the cast of a telenovela.
Braised Pork Shoulder:
One 6-pound boneless pork shoulder, 
trimmed and cut in half if necessary
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil15 garlic cloves, thinly sliced4 cups low-sodium chicken stock 4 cups fresh orange juice
3⁄4 cup fresh lime juice, or more to taste
3⁄4 cup distilled white vinegar
1⁄2 cup soy sauce, or more to taste
1 1⁄2 cups lightly packed light brown 
sugar, or more to taste 
One 2-inch piece ginger, sliced2 cinnamon sticks2 pieces star aniseFresh cilantro for garnish
Yucca:
3 pounds yuccaAbout 2 quarts low-sodium chicken stock
1⁄4 cup distilled white vinegar
1 white onion, thinly sliced6 garlic cloves 1  bay leafSalt and freshly ground black pepper 
to taste
Pickled Onions (see right)
For the Braised Pork Shoulder:
 1. Pat the pork dry with paper towels and generously season with salt and pepper on 
all sides. In a large pot, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the pork and sear 
until browned on all sides, 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer to a large plate.
 2. Reduce the heat to medium and remove all but 1⁄2 cup fat from the pot. Add the 
garlic and cook until golden, about 2 minutes. Add the stock, orange juice, lime 
juice, vinegar, soy sauce, brown sugar, ginger, cinnamon, and star anise. Bring to a boil, then add the pork and bring back to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover, and simmer, turning the pork every 30 minutes, until very tender, 1 
1⁄4 to 2 hours. Remove the pork 
from the liquid and set aside on a plate. Tent with aluminum foil. Cut into 1⁄2-inch-
thick slices just before serving.
 3. Bring the liquid in the pot back to a boil and cook over medium-high heat until 
reduced by about half, about 30 minutes. Taste and adjust the ﬂ  avors, adding more 
lime juice, soy sauce, or sugar if necessary.
For the Yucca:
 1. Peel the yucca, rinse, and slice each piece in half lengthwise. Remove the stringy 
core in the center. Cut each half crosswise into 2-inch lengths.
 2. In a large pot, combine the yucca with the remaining ingredients. Bring to a boil, 
then reduce the heat and simmer, covered, until tender, 1 to 1 1⁄2 hours, adding more 
stock or water to cover as needed. Drain. 
To Se rve:
  Divide the yucca among the serving plates. Place pork slices on top and drizzle with mojo sauce. Top with pickled onions and garnish with cilantro. Serve immediately.3 hours
Serves  6 to 8
ON THE SIDE: 
Pickled Onions
2⁄3 cup distilled white vinegar
1⁄2 cup granulated sugar
Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
2 tablepoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 large red onions, cut 
into rings
While you’re cooking the pork and yucca, in a medium bowl, combine the vinegar, sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Whisk to dissolve the sugar, then whisk in the oil. Add the onions and toss to coat. Cover and refriger-ate until ready to serve.
ENTRÉES: MEAT     9798    ENTRÉES: MEAT
Duo of Beef
with Kobe Strip Loin and Braised Kobe Short Ribs, with White Polenta
CHEF: Har old 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 12
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.
For the Braised Kobe Short Ribs:
 1. Generously season the ribs with salt and pepper. 
 2. In a large, heavy pot, heat the oil ov er medium-high heat. Add the beef, in batches, 
and brown well, turning occasionally, 8 to 10 minutes per batch. Using tongs, remove 
the ribs and transfer to a large bowl.
 3. Reduce the heat to medium, add the onions and celery, and cook until caramelized, 
15 to 20 minutes.  Add the tomatoes and cook until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the wine, raise the heat, and cook until reduced by about half, about 20 minutes. 
 4. Return the ribs with their drippings to the pot, along with the chicken and veal 
stocks. Bring to a simmer, then reduce the heat to low, cover, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the beef is very tender and falling off the bone, 3 to 4 hours.
 5. Remove the beef from the pot, cool slightly, then remove the bones and cut into 
3-inch pieces. Strain the sauce, then return the sauce to the pot, raise the heat to 
high, and boil until reduced to about 4 cups, about 30 minutes. Return the beef to the pot.5 to 6 hours
Serv es 6
WinnerBraised Kobe Short Ribs:5 pounds Kobe short ribs, well trimmed Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1⁄4 cup olive oil
2 medium yellow onions, chopped1  celery rib, chopped5 medium tomatoes, seeded and choppedOne 750-ml bottle red wine2 cups low-sodium chicken stock1  quart low-sodium veal stock
Kobe Strip Loin:
1 
1⁄4 pounds Kobe strip loin, well trimmed
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, meltedWhite Polenta:2 cups milk1  cup heavy cream1  cup coarse white polenta2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 
pieces
1⁄4 cup mascarpone cheese
Salt and freshly ground white pepper
Vegetables:
Salt
24 asparagus tips
1  tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil1  tablespoon unsalted butter4 ounces fresh morel mushrooms, 
quartered
Freshly ground black pepper
To Se rve:
 Fresh rosemary sprigs for garnishFor the Kobe Strip Loin:
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Generously season the strip loin with salt and pepper. 
 2. In a large skillet, heat the oil over high heat until hot but not smoking. Sear the beef, 
about 2 minutes on each side. Place the skillet with beef in the oven and cook for 
about 30 minutes for medium-rare (internal temperature of 130° to 135°F) or about 40 minutes for medium (internal temperature of 140° to 150°F). Baste the beef with the butter about halfway through cooking time.
 3. Remove from the oven, let the beef sit for 5 minutes, then slice.
For the White Polenta:
 1. In a large saucepan, combine the milk, cream, and 2 cups water and place over 
medium heat. Heat just until bubbles begin to form around the edges (watch the pot so it doesn’t boil over) and slowly whisk in the polenta. Reduce the heat to low and simmer, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the mixture is thick but pourable and leaves the sides of the pan as you stir it, about 20 minutes.
 2. Remove from the heat and beat the butter and mascarpone into the polenta. Season 
with salt and white pepper to taste. 
For the Vegetables:
 1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the asparagus and cook until just 
tender, about 3 minutes. Remove the asparagus from the water using a slotted spoon and transfer to a large bowl. Toss with the oil.
 2. In a medium skillet, heat the butter over medium heat. Add the mushrooms and 
sauté until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the asparagus and heat to warm through. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
To Se rve:
  Spoon the polenta onto serving plates, arrange the steak slices on top, and place the vegetables alongside. Add some of the ribs, along with the sauce, and garnish with the rosemary sprigs. Serve immediately.TIMESAVER !
Time management is key to 
the outcome of this dish. Try to enlist an assistant toward the end of cooking to wrap it all up smoothly. The best approach to cooking this meal is: 
1. Put your ribs up to braise. 2. Gather your ingredients for 
all the other components and preheat the oven for the steak. 
3. After the ribs are cooked and 
as you’re reducing the sauce, start in with the steak, polenta, and vegetables—in the time that the sauce is reducing, you can have the steak in the oven, and while the steak is cook-ing, you’ll be freed up to stir the polenta while you’re cooking the vegetables.
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE    “MY FAVORITE DISH OF ALL THREE SEASONS. WHAT I LIKED ABOUT IT WAS HIS 
RESPECT FOR THE PRODUCTS. I HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO CRITICISMS.”
ENTRÉES: MEAT     99100    ENTRÉES: MEATProsciutto and Cheese Pizza 
CHEF: Frank
SEASON 2, EPISODE 4ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a meal under 500 calories.
Pizza Sauce:
1  tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 medium yellow onion, minced
1  garlic clove, mincedOne 15-ounce can tomato puree1  tablespoon tomato paste
1⁄4 cup red wine
2 teaspoons ﬁ  nely chopped fresh oregano
2 teaspoons ﬁ  nely chopped fresh basil
1  teaspoon sugar, or to taste Salt and freshly ground black pepperCrust and Toppings:4 whole wheat pita bread rounds
1⁄4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
12 ounces fresh mozzarella cheese, thinly 
sliced
2 large tomatoes, thinly sliced8 thin slices prosciutto, torn into pieces12 fresh basil leaves, torn into pieces
 For the Pizza Sauce: 
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
 2. In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté 
until soft, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté until soft, about 1 minute. Add 
the tomato puree, tomato paste, wine, oregano, basil, sugar, and salt and pepper to taste and stir to combine. Bring to a simmer, cover, then reduce the heat and 
simmer for 30 minutes for the ﬂ  avors to blend, stirring occasionally. Set aside to 
cool slightly.
For the Crust and Toppings:
 1. Drizzle the pitas with the oil and season with salt and pepper.
 2. Spread the sauce over the pitas, then top with the cheese and tomato slices.
 3. Place the pizzas on a baking sheet, transfer to the oven, and bake until the cheese is 
melted and the crust is crisp, about 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and scatter the prosciutto and basil on top. Cut each pizza into 4 slices and serve immediately.
Note:
In the episode, the team used sausage on their pizza, but you can also make it with 
prosciutto, as shown here.1 hourServ es 4
Winner
FRANK    “AS SOON AS WE WALKED INTO THE STORE, BETTY AND I LOOKED AT EACH OTHER AND SAID, ‘PIZZA!’ 
I MEAN, WE WERE COOKING FOR KIDS.”102    ENTRÉES: MEAT
Black Trufﬂ  e Burger 
with Taleggio Cheese, Tomato, and Radicchio
CHEF: Ho wie 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 8
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: P repare a burger for Red Robin’s line of “Adventuresome Burgers.”
1 1⁄2 pounds ground sirloin
3 ounces black trufﬂ  e butter
1  teaspoon salt
4 slices pancetta4 ounces Taleggio cheese, sliced4 brioche buns, split in half and toasted1  heirloom tomato, sliced8 radicchio leaves
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 2. In a large bowl, combine the beef, trufﬂ  e butter, and salt. Mix with a fork or your 
ﬁ ngers until the butter is just incorporated. Form the beef into 4 patties. Lay a slice 
of pancetta over each patty.
 3. Preheat a large, ovenproof skillet (preferably cast iron) over medium-high heat until 
hot. Put the burgers in the skillet, pancetta-side down, and cook for about 4 minutes 
per side for rare, 5 minutes per side for medium-rare. 
 4. Put the cheese on top of the burgers and place the skillet in the oven until the 
cheese is melted, about 5 minutes.
 5. Place the burgers on the bottom bun halves, top with the tomato slices and radic-
chio, and cover with the top bun halves.20 minutes
Serv es 4
WHAT ARE . . .  
Trufﬂ es
Why is the trufﬂ  e one of the most 
expensive foods in the world? For one, this little fungus is extremely hard to ﬁ  nd. Trufﬂ  es never break 
through the surface of the soil, so specially trained pigs and dogs are used to sniff them out. Add their rich, earthy aroma, and to many this is a delicacy worth going to the ends of the world for. The king of black trufﬂ  es is the 
Perigord trufﬂ  e from France. The 
white trufﬂ  e, mainly from Italy, 
is milder in ﬂ  avor and usually 
served raw. Both can cost hun-dreds of dollars a pound.APPETIZERS     103ENTRÉES: MEAT     103Corn Sopes  
with Char Siu Pork and Pickled Asian Slaw
CHEFS: Lee Anne and Stephen 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 5
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: F use two of San Francisco’s culinary cultures in a new kind of street food.
2 pounds thinly sliced center-cut pork 
chops
Half 14-ounce jar char siu barbecue sauce
1  Hass avocado2 tablespoons sour cream1  tablespoon chili oilJuice of 
1⁄2 limeSalt and freshly ground white pepper
3 cups masa harina
1⁄2 cup lard or vegetable shortening
1  cup corn kernelsVegetable oil for frying
Pickled Asian Slaw (see right)
 1. Put the pork chops in a large bowl and drizzle with the char siu sauce, tossing to 
coat the chops evenly. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. 
 2. In a food processor, combine the avocado, sour cream, chili oil, and lime juice. 
Process until smooth, then season to taste with salt and white pepper. Cover 
and refrigerate.
 3. In a large bowl, combine the masa harina, lard, corn, and 2 teaspoons salt. Sprinkle 
in 10 tablespoons water and mix with your hands until the dough is smooth, adding a 
little more water if the dough is too dry. 
 4. Roll out half of the dough between two sheets of plastic wrap to 1⁄4 inch thick. Use a 
4-inch round cutter or a drinking glass to cut out rounds, gathering up and re-rolling 
the scraps. Repeat with the remaining dough.
 5. Preheat the oven to 250°F.
 6. In a large cast-iron skillet or sauté pan, heat 1⁄2 inch oil over medium-high heat. 
When the oil is hot but not smoking, add 5 or 6 of the masa rounds, being careful not to overcrowd the pan. Cook, turning once, for about 3 minutes on each side, reducing the heat to medium-low if necessary to keep the oil from smoking, until the masa is tender and well browned. Transfer to a baking sheet lined with paper towels to drain and season lightly with salt. Repeat with the remaining masa rounds, adding more oil to the pan if necessary. Put the baking sheet in the oven to keep the sopes warm while you grill the pork.
 7. Preheat a charcoal grill and set the grate about 8 inches above the coals. Lightly 
brush the grate with oil. When the ﬂ  ames have died down and the coals are white, 
place the pork chops on the grill. Cook for about 2 minutes per side, until grill-marked and cooked through. Remove to a cutting board and let rest for 5 minutes. 
 8. Cut the pork into 
1⁄4-inch cubes.
 9. To serve, spread a bit of the avocado sauce onto each sope, then top with chopped 
pork, then slaw. Serve immediately, 3 or 4 sopes per person.ON THE SIDE:
Pickled Asian Slaw
2⁄3 cup rice vinegar
1 1⁄3 cups sugar
1⁄2 jicama, cut into julienne
1⁄4 head green cabbage, cored 
and shredded
1 carrot, cut into julienne
1⁄2 red onion, cut into julienne
1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro, 
stemmed and chopped
2 teaspoons sesame oil
Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
1.  In a large saucepan, bring 
2 cups water, the vinegar, and sugar to a boil, stirring to dis-solve the sugar. 
2.  Add the jicama, cabbage, 
carrot, and onion and cook, stirring, until the carrot and onion are just tender, 6 to 8 minutes. Drain the vegetables and spread them out in a large baking dish to cool to room temperature.
3.  In a large bowl, toss the veg-
etables with the cilantro and sesame oil. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.1 hour, plus marinating 
1 hour 
Serves  6 to 8CHEF: Dale
SEASON 3, EPISODE 13ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare elk for hungry rodeo cowboys and cowgirls.Seared Elk Loin 
with Cauliﬂ  ower and Fingerling Potato Mash, and Pickled Cauliﬂ  ower
Pickled Cauliﬂ  ower:
1  medium head cauliﬂ  ower, cut into 
small ﬂ  orets
5 shallots, thinly sliced
1⁄2 cup sherry vinegar
1⁄4 cup red wine vinegar
1 1⁄2 cups sugar
1  tablespoon kosher salt
Elk Loin:
5 tablespoons ﬁ  nely chopped fresh 
rosemary
5 tablespoons ﬁ  nely chopped 
fresh thyme
2 tablespoons minced garlic2 teaspoons coarsely crushed black 
peppercorns
2 teaspoons salt
1⁄2 teaspoon ground allspice
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cloves
1⁄2 teaspoon ground star anise
One 2- to 3-pound elk loin2 tablespoons olive oil
Huckleberry-Blackberry Sauce:
15 black peppercorns2 bay leaves5 whole allspice berries1  cinnamon stick7 whole cloves3 pieces star anise1  tablespoon unsalted butter
1⁄2 cup diced yellow onion1⁄2 cup diced carrot
1⁄2 cup diced celery
2 garlic cloves, peeled and left whole4 cups red wine3 thyme sprigs3 cups huckleberries3 cups blackberries1 
1⁄2 cups tawny port 
4 cups lamb demi-glace2 tablespoons sugar, or more to tasteSalt and freshly ground black pepper
Cauliﬂ  ower and Fingerling Potato Mash:
3 cups cauliﬂ  ower ﬂ  orets
1  pound ﬁ  ngerling potatoes, sliced into 
1⁄2-inch rounds (about 4 cups)
About 5 cups milk
1⁄2 cup chèvre
1⁄2 cup dried tart cherries
1⁄4 cup ﬁ  nely chopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf 
parsley
Salt and freshly ground white pepper
To Se rve:
Pinch of cinnamonPinch of ground gingerFresh blackberries
Fresh mint leaves
Corn shootsRadish sprouts
Chopped toasted pecans
For the Pickled Cauliﬂ  ower:
 1. Put the cauliﬂ  ower and shallots in a large bowl.
 2. In a large saucepan, combine 3 cups water, the vinegars, sugar, and salt and place 
over high heat. Bring to a boil, whisking to dissolve the sugar and salt. Pour the 
mixture over the cauliﬂ  ower and shallots, cool slightly, then cover and refrigerate 
overnight. Drain just before serving.
For the Elk Loin:
 1. Combine the rosemary, thyme, garlic, peppercorns, salt, allspice, cloves, and star 3 hours, plus 
marinating overnight
Serv es 6 to 8
Winner
“I liked the way 
Dale cooked the 
elk, and the huckle-berry sauce was excellent.”
CHEF ERIC RIPERT, GUEST JUDGE
104    ENTRÉES: MEATTIMESAVER  !
Plan on starting a day ahead 
for this recipe, as both the pickled cauliﬂ  ower and elk call 
for overnight marinating.anise in a medium bowl. Spread the mixture over a large plate. Press the elk loin into 
the spice mixture to coat all sides. Cover the elk and refrigerate overnight.
 2. When all the other components of the meal are ready to go, cook the elk. You may 
need to cut the loin in half to ﬁ  t in your pan. In a large skillet, heat the oil over 
medium-high heat. Sear the elk on both sides for about 7 minutes total per inch of meat, or until rare to medium-rare (internal temperature 130° to 140°F). 
 3. Let the elk rest for 5 to 7 minutes, then cut into serving slices.
For the Huckleberry-Blackberry Sauce:
 1. In a large saucepan, combine the peppercorns, bay leaves, allspice berries, 
cinnamon stick, cloves, and star anise and place over medium-high heat. Toast the spices, stirring, until aromatic, about 3 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium, add the butter, and stir to melt. Add the onion, carrot, celery, and garlic and sauté until lightly browned, 5 to 7 minutes.  
 2. Add 2 cups of the red wine and stir, scraping up the browned bits from the bottom of 
the pan. Add the thyme sprigs. Bring to a simmer and cook until the wine is reduced by about half, about 10 minutes.
 3. Add the huckleberries and blackberries and cook, breaking the fruit up with the 
back of a wooden spoon, until the berries are falling apart and the mixture is slightly reduced, about 15 minutes.
 4. Add the remaining 2 cups red wine and reduce by about a third, about 15 minutes. 
Add the port and reduce by about a third, about 15 minutes. Add the demi-glace and reduce by about half, about 10 minutes. Add the sugar and season with salt and pep-per to taste.
 5. Strain through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve, return to the pan, and add more sugar, salt, and 
pepper as needed. Warm through just before serving.
For the Cauliﬂ  ower and Fingerling Potato Mash:
 1. In a large saucepan, combine the cauliﬂ  ower and potatoes and add milk to cover. 
Place over medium heat and bring to a simmer, watching the pot so the milk doesn’t boil over. Cook for about 15 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender. Strain, reserving the cooking liquid.
 2. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl and add the chèvre and cherries. Mash with a 
hand masher, breaking the mixture down to a risotto-like consistency and adding some of the cooking liquid as needed.
 3. Add the parsley and season with salt and white pepper to taste. Rewarm just before 
serving if necessary.
To Se rve:
  Spoon the cauliﬂ  ower and potato mash onto serving plates. Arrange the elk slices 
alongside, sprinkle the elk with a pinch of cinnamon and ginger, and top with the huckleberry-blackberry sauce. Add the pickled cauliﬂ  ower and garnish with black-
berries, mint, corn shoots, radish sprouts, and chopped pecans. Serve immediately.
ENTRÉES: MEAT     105106    ENTRÉES: MEATMoroccan Cubanos 
CHEFS: Dave and Tiffani
SEASON 1, EPISODE 5
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: F use two of San Francisco’s culinary cultures in a new kind of street food.
Pork:
One 4- to 5-pound bone-in pork butt, 
trimmed
Salt
2 tablespoons ras al-hanout
1  cup low-sodium veal stock1  cup low-sodium chicken stock
Pickled Vegetables:
3 cups red wine vinegar1  cup sugar1  tablespoon fennel seeds4 carrots, cut into julienne1  red onion, cut into julienne3 fresh jalapeño chiles, thinly sliced
To Se rve:
4 fresh pocketless pitas or other ﬂ  atbread, 
or fresh corn tortillas
For the Pork:
 1. Preheat the oven to 275°F.
 2. Season the pork generously with salt and ras al-hanout . 
 3. Heat a large cast-iron skillet over high heat. Add the pork and cook until well 
browned on all sides, about 12 minutes total.
 4. Put the pork in a large roasting pan and pour in the stocks and 1⁄2 cup water. Roast 
for 4 to 5 hours, until the pork is tender enough to pull apart with a fork. 
 5. Remove the pork to a cutting board and pour the cooking juices into a small sauce-
pan. Cook the juices over high heat until reduced to about 3⁄4 cup; shred the pork 
into bite-size pieces, discarding the bones. In a large bowl, toss the pork with the 
reduced juices.
For the Pickled Vegetables:
 1. In a large nonreactive pot, combine the vinegar, sugar, fennel, and 3 cups water and 
bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar.
 2. Put the carrots, onion, and chiles in a large heatproof bowl. Pour the hot vinegar 
mixture into the bowl. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let the vegetables steam for 20 minutes. Pour out all but about 1 cup of the liquid. Keep the vegetables, cov-ered, in the refrigerator; bring to room temperature when ready to serve. 
To Se rve:
 1. In a skillet over medium-high heat, warm the pitas, one at a time.
 2. Pile the pork onto the pitas, top with pickled vegetables, and serve immediately. More than 3 hours
Serv es 6
Winner
WHAT IS . . . 
Ras Al-Hanout?
Ras al-hanout (pronounced 
“RAS-all-hah-NOOT”) is a Moroccan spice blend. It’s available in specialty and Middle Eastern markets, or you can make your own. Combine 2 teaspoons each ground cumin, ground ginger, and salt, and 1 teaspoon each freshly ground black pepper, ground cayenne, ground coriander, and ground cinnamon, and 
1⁄2 teaspoon 
ground cloves.
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE    “I LIKED THE IDEA THAT THERE WAS A NICE LITTLE SALAD IN THERE THAT COOLED 
OFF SOME OF THE HEAT.”108    ENTRÉES: MEAT
Prime New York Strip Steaks  
with Foie Gras Sauce and Parsnip Puree
CHEF: Har old 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 6
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a seven-course dinner party for Ted Allen.
Foie Gras Sauce:
1  tablespoon olive oil
About 12 ounces beef trimmings and bonesSalt and freshly ground black pepper
2 shallots, chopped1  carrot, peeled and chopped2 celery ribs, chopped 2 garlic cloves, smashed1  cup red Burgundy wine4 cups low-sodium veal stock1  fresh thyme sprig1  bay leaf4 to 6 ounces foie gras, dicedParsnip Puree:
2 tablespoons unsalted butter5 parsnips, peeled and chopped1  small shallot, chopped1  garlic clove, chopped
3⁄4 cup heavy cream
About 3⁄4 cup low-sodium chicken stock
Leaves from 1 fresh thyme sprig
Beef:
Four 10- to 12-ounce prime strip steaks
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons olive oil4 tablespoons unsalted butter4 garlic cloves, minced
For the Foie Gras Sauce:
 1. In a heavy saucepan, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the trimmings and 
bones, season with salt and pepper, and cook for 8 minutes, or until browned. Add 
the shallots, carrot, celery, and garlic and sauté for 8 minutes, until lightly browned. Add the wine and cook until it is almost evaporated. Add the stock, thyme, and bay leaf, bring to a simmer, and cook until reduced to 1 
1⁄2 cups, about 1 hour.
 2. Using an immersion blender, blend the foie gras into the sauce 1 or 2 pieces at a 
time, blending until completely incorporated. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.
For the Parsnip Puree:
 1. In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the parsnips, shallot, 
and garlic and sauté until the shallot is translucent, 8 to 10 minutes.
 2. Add the cream, enough stock to cover the parsnips, and the thyme leaves and bring 
to a simmer. Cook until the parsnips are very soft, 10 to 15 minutes. Transfer to a food processor and puree until smooth. Set aside. 
For the Beef:
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
 2. Let the steaks warm to room temperature, then season them with salt and pepper.
 3. Heat a large, heavy skillet over high heat. Add the oil. When the oil is hot but not 
smoking, add the steaks. Cook, turning once, until nicely browned on both sides, about 8 minutes total. Put the skillet in the oven and roast the steaks to desired degree of doneness. Transfer to serving plates and brush with the butter and garlic; let rest for 5 minutes. Spoon the sauce around the steaks. Place a mound 
of parsnips on each plate. Serve immediately.2 hours
Serv es 4APPETIZERS     109Spicy Braised Korean Pork   
with Kim Chee and Sticky Rice 
CHEFS: M arisa, Ilan, Frank, Marcel, Cliff, Elia, Otto (Team Korea)
SEASON 2, EPISODE 2
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a dish using the ﬂ  avors of either Korea or Vietnam.
Sticky Rice:
4 cups short-grain sticky rice
 
Spicy Braised Korean Pork:One 5- to 6-pound pork shoulder, trimmed, 
halved if necessary 
1  tablespoon Korean red pepper or red 
pepper ﬂ  akes
2 tablespoons paprika2 tablespoons curry powder2 tablespoons minced garlic1  tablespoon salt, plus more to taste1  teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, 
plus more to taste
2 tablespoons vegetable oil2 Bosc pears, peeled, cored, and diced1  cup diced carrots1  cup diced celery1  cup diced yellow onions10 garlic cloves2 tablespoons minced fresh ginger 1  quart apple juice2 teaspoons rice vinegar, or to taste
Kim Chee (see right)
For the Sticky Rice:
 1. Put the rice in a large bowl and add enough cold water to cover by 3 inches. Soak for 
about 3 hours (or overnight) while you’re preparing the pork. 
 2. During the last 30 minutes or so of cooking the pork, drain the rice and place it in a 
steamer basket lined with cheesecloth. Place over a pot of boiling water, cover, and 
steam until tender, about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and let stand, covered, for about 5 minutes. 
For the Spicy Braised Korean Pork:
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Pat the pork dry with paper towels. In a small bowl, com-
bine the red pepper, paprika, curry powder, garlic, 1 tablespoon salt, and 1 teaspoon pepper. Pat the rub all over the pork.
 2. In a large, heavy pot, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the pork and sear 
until browned on all sides, 15 to 20 minutes total. Remove the pork from the pan and transfer to a large bowl or platter. Add the pears, carrots, celery, onions, garlic, and ginger to the fat in the pot. Reduce the heat to medium and sauté until tender, about 10 minutes. Add the apple juice, increase the heat to medium-high, and bring to a boil, stirring constantly.
 3. Put the pork back in the pot and turn to coat. Bring the liquid back to a boil, then 
cover, turn off the heat and transfer to the oven. Bake for about 3 hours, turning the pork every 30 minutes, until very tender. Remove the pork and transfer to a platter. Tent with aluminum foil, then cut into thick pieces just before serving. 
 4. Skim the fat off the cooking liquid, place over medium-high heat, and boil until thick-
ened, about 15 minutes. Add the vinegar and season with salt and pepper.
To Se rve:
  Spoon the sticky rice onto serving plates. Top with the pork and some sauce. Place the kim chee alongside and serve immediately.3 1⁄2 hours, plus 4 days 
for the Kim Chee
Serves  8
ON THE SIDE: 
Kim Chee
1  head napa cabbage1  medium daikon radishAbout 
1⁄2 cup  salt
3 scallions, thinly sliced3 garlic cloves, minced4 teaspoons minced fresh ginger1  tablespoon red pepper ﬂ  akes 
or kim chee spice mix
2 teaspoons soy sauce 
ENTRÉES: MEAT     1091.  Separate the cabbage into 
leaves, discarding any damaged outer leaves. Peel the daikon and cut into 
1⁄4-inch-thick 
slices. In a large nonreactive bowl, layer the cabbage and daikon slices, sprinkling salt in between each layer, using about 
1⁄2 cup salt total. Add 
water to cover by 1 inch and place a heavy plate on top of the leaves. Set aside overnight.
2.  The next day, remove the 
plate and drain the vegetables. Rinse well under running water 
and drain. Cut the cabbage into 
1⁄4-inch-thick slices. Transfer 
the vegetables to a large non-reactive bowl. Add the scallions, garlic, ginger, pepper ﬂ  akes, 
soy sauce, 2 teaspoons salt, and 1 cup water. Mix gently.
3.  Transfer the vegetable mix-
ture and liquid to a large crock. Cover tightly and refrigerate for 3 days, stirring once a day.110    ENTRÉES: MEAT
Threesome of Colorado Lamb 
TIMESAVER !
Save time by making elements 
of each part of the threesome at 
once: simmer the soup and make the pomegranate reduction while the short ribs cook. Short Ribs: 1 
1⁄4 pounds lamb short ribs, or 1 lamb 
breast
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
2 garlic cloves
1⁄4 cup red wine such as Tempranillo
1  tablespoon olive oil2 Medjool dates, pitted1  pound fresh peas, shelledFresh ﬂ at-leaf parsley sprigs
Soup: 
2 small lamb sausages (about 
1⁄4 pound)
1  carrot, cut into 1⁄2-inch slices
1  celery rib, cut into 1⁄2-inch slices
1  leek, white and light green part only, 
washed and chopped1  tablespoon unsalted butter4 fresh fava bean pods
Rack of Lamb: 
1  pomegranate
1⁄4 cup red wine
1  tablespoon sugar
One 1 1⁄2-pound rack of lamb (with 
8 bones)
Coarse sea salt12 to 16 chanterelle mushrooms1  tablespoon olive oil 
1⁄2 cup soy sauce
1⁄2 cup mirin
1⁄2 cup white miso paste
For the Short Ribs: 
 1. Season the short ribs with the salt. Put them in a gallon-size zip-top bag with the 
garlic, wine, and oil, press out as much air as possible, and seal the bag.  
 2. Bring a large pot of water to 180°F—just below a simmer. Lower the bag into the 
water and cook at 180°F for 2 hours. Remove the ribs from the bag and let them rest 
until cool enough to handle. Pull the meat from the bones and shred it; discard the bones and the bag. 
 3. Mince the dates and combine them with the lamb; set aside. 
 4. In a small saucepan of boiling water, cook the peas for 5 to 7 minutes, until soft; 
drain in a colander set over a bowl, reserving the cooking liquid. In a food processor, puree the peas, adding some of the reserved cooking liquid to make a smooth, thick puree. Season with salt to taste. 
For the Soup: 
 1. Remove the casings from the sausages and form half of the sausage into miniature 
meatballs about 
1⁄3 inch in diameter. Heat a small sauté pan or skillet over medium-
high heat and cook the meatballs until browned and cooked through. Set aside. 
 2. Put the remaining sausage, the carrot, celery, leek, and water to cover in a small 
saucepan. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and simmer for 1 hour. Pour through a ﬁ ne-mesh sieve set over a bowl, reserving the cooking liquid. In a blender or food 
processor, puree the sausage and vegetables, adding the butter and most of the reserved liquid to make a thick, smooth soup. Add salt and pepper and set aside. 
 3. Open the fava bean pods and remove the beans. In a small saucepan of boiling 
water, blanch the beans for 2 minutes; drain. Peel the beans and set them aside. CHEF: Ste phen
SEASON 1, EPISODE 1
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a signature dish to be served to the other contestants.
3 hours
Serv es 4For the Rack of Lamb: 
 1. Make several cuts in the pomegranate skin from top to bottom. Immerse the pome-
granate in a bowl of water and gently break it apart. Pull the seeds away from the 
pith and they will sink. Pour off the water and pith, leaving the seeds in the bowl. Drain in a colander. Set 
1⁄4 cup of the seeds aside for garnish; place the rest in a 
blender and blend until ﬁ  nely chopped. Strain the liquid through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve 
lined with several layers of rinsed and squeezed cheesecloth set over a large bowl.  
 2. In a small saucepan, combine the pomegranate juice, wine, and sugar and bring to 
a boil. Cook for about 25 minutes, until the sauce is reduced by about half and is a syrupy consistency. Set aside. 
 3. Season the lamb all over with sea salt. Toss the mushrooms with the oil and sea salt 
to taste.
 4. Preheat a charcoal grate and set the grate about 8 inches above the coals.
 5. Lightly brush the grate with oil. When the ﬂ  ames have died down and the coals are 
white, put the lamb on the grill; brush the top of the lamb with soy sauce, cover the grill, and cook for 2 minutes, then turn the lamb over. Brush with soy sauce, cover the grill, cook for 2 minutes, then turn again. Brush with mirin, cover, cook for 2 min-utes, then turn again, brush with mirin, cover, and cook for 2 minutes. Repeat with the miso paste, turning and brushing to create a crust, and cooking for 2 minutes on each side. Cover the grill and cook, turning as necessary, until the lamb regis-ters 135°F for medium-rare, about 2 minutes longer, for a total of about 16 minutes. Remove the lamb to a carving board and let rest for 5 minutes. Cut between every 
other set of 2 bones into double-size chops. 
 6. Put the mushrooms on the grill and cook until softened, about 2 minutes. 
To Se rve: 
 1. Gently warm the lamb and date mixture in a small saucepan over low heat (or put 
in a glass bowl and heat for 30 seconds in a microwave oven). Place a small ring mold on one side of each of 4 serving plates and pack it with one quarter of the lamb mixture. Remove the mold to form a timbale. Top each timbale with a dollop of the pea puree and garnish with parsley. 
 2. Reheat the soup in a small saucepan. Divide the meatballs and fava beans among 
4 small cups set on the serving plates. Ladle in the soup. 
 3. Spoon some of the pomegranate sauce into the center of each plate. Place the 
mushrooms over the sauce. Place a lamb chop on top of the mushrooms on each plate, garnish with the reserved pomegranate seeds, and serve immediately.“The lamb was an 
expression of my 
signature style. There was the pomegranate glacé, which re-ﬂ ects my French 
training; the lamb based on Japa-nese wagyu beef, which represents my time at Nobu; and then the tra ditional lamb soup, which is very Italian.”
STEPHEN
ENTRÉES: MEAT     111CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR HUBERT KELLER, GUEST JUDGE    “THIS WAS ALTOGETHER A GREAT DISH. I LIKED IT 
AS SOON AS IT CAME TO THE TABLE.”
ENTRÉES: MEAT     111APPETIZERS     113Fennel-Crusted Pork Chops  
with Three-Apple Fennel Salad and Apple Cider Sauce 
CHEF: Ho wie 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 3
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: T urn traditional family favorites into healthier dishes.
Fennel-Crusted Pork Chops:
1⁄2 cup olive oil
2 large shallots, chopped
4 garlic cloves, chopped2 tablespoons Dijon-style mustard4 rosemary sprigs, choppedLeaves from 4 thyme sprigs, chopped5 tablespoons fennel seeds, toasted and 
roughly ground 
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 boneless pork loin chops (each about 
1⁄2 inch thick)Apple Cider Sauce:1  quart apple cider1  cup apple cider vinegar1  cup packed light brown sugar4 shallots, chopped5 garlic cloves, choppedOne 2-inch piece ginger, thinly sliced1  small bunch fresh thyme2 pieces star anise2 cinnamon sticks1  bay leaf
Three-Apple Fennel Salad (see right)
For the Fennel-Crusted Pork Chops Marinade:
 1. Combine the oil, shallots, garlic, mustard, rosemary, thyme, 1 tablespoon of the 
fennel seeds, and salt and pepper to taste in a blender and puree.
 2. Place the pork chops in a heavy-duty zip-top bag, pour in the marinade, seal the 
bag, and distribute the marinade to coat. Refrigerate overnight to marinate, moving 
the pork chops around a few times to keep them thoroughly coated. 
For the Apple Cider Sauce:
 1. Combine all the ingredients in a large saucepan and place over medium-high heat. 
Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to medium-high and simmer, uncovered, until the sauce has a rich, glossy consistency and is reduced to about 1 cup, 45 to 60 minutes. Watch carefully toward the end, as the sauce will bubble and start to get syrupy—remove from the heat just before it becomes thick and syrupy. 
 2. Strain and discard the solids. Set aside and reheat just before serving.
To Cook the Fennel-Crusted Pork Chops:
 1. Preheat the grill to medium-high. 
 2. Combine the remaining 4 tablespoons ground fennel with 1 teaspoon salt and 1 tea-
spoon pepper. Remove the pork chops from the marinade and wipe off any excess. Press the pork chops into the fennel seeds to coat all sides.
 3. Oil the grill rack, then grill the pork chops, covered, turning once, until just cooked 
through, about 10 minutes, or until the internal temperature reaches 150° to 160°F. Let the pork rest for a few minutes, then cut into thin slices. (Alternatively, the chops can be cooked in a lightly oiled large ridged grill pan over medium-high heat.)
To Se rve:
  Spoon the sauce onto serving plates, top with the pork slices and fennel salad.Garnish with the reserved fennel fronds and serve immediately.ON THE SIDE: 
Three-Apple 
Fennel Salad
1⁄2 cup olive oil
3 tablespoons apple cider 
vinegar, or to taste
1⁄2 cup golden raisins
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
1⁄2 cup julienned Granny Smith 
apple (about 1⁄2 apple)
1⁄2 cup julienned Golden Deli-
cious apple (about 1⁄2 apple)
1⁄2 cup julienned Braeburn 
apple (about 1⁄2 apple)
1 1⁄2 cups julienned fennel 
(from 1 small bulb), fronds 
reserved for garnish
1.  While you’re cooking the 
apple cider sauce, in a blender, combine the oil, vinegar, 2 tablespoons water, the raisins, cumin, and salt and pepper to taste and blend to combine and chop the raisins. 
2.  Just before serving, combine 
the apples and fennel in a large bowl and add the vinaigrette. Toss to coat, taste, and add 
more vinegar, salt, or pepper if needed.1 1⁄2 hours, plus 
marinating overnight
Serves  4
Winner
ENTRÉES: MEAT     113114    ENTRÉES: MEAT
CHEF: Casey 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 11
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: De vise a delicious entrée for Continental’s BusinessFirst service.Veal Medallions  
with Cremini and Apple Brandy, with Cauliﬂ  ower Gratin
Compound Butter:
2 cups unsalted butter, at room
temperature 
1  teaspoon salt1  teaspoon chopped fresh parsley1  teaspoon chopped fresh thyme 1  teaspoon zahtar
Apple Brandy Sauce:
1  tablespoon olive oil
1⁄2 onion, ﬁ  nely diced
8 ounces bacon, ﬁ  nely diced
12 ounces cremini mushrooms, trimmed 
and quartered 
1⁄2 cup brandy
1  Granny Smith apple, peeled and ﬁ  nely 
diced
1  cup low-sodium chicken stock
1⁄2 cup veal demi-glace
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
Cauliﬂ  ower Gratin:
Salt
1 large head cauliﬂ  ower, cut into ﬂ  orets 2 1⁄2 cups milk
4 tablespoons unsalted butter 
1⁄4 cup all-purpose ﬂ  our
8 ounces Gruyère cheese, gratedFreshly ground black pepper
3⁄4 cup cracker crumbs
Vegetables:
1  tablespoon olive oil1  bunch white asparagus, tips only 
(about 1 pound)
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
6 Brussels sprouts, halved6 plum tomatoes, halved 
Veal:
Olive oil
Twelve 2-ounce slices veal strip
To Se rve:
Minced fresh parsley
For the Compound Butter:
  In a mixer or food processor, combine the butter, salt, parsley, thyme, and zahtar. 
Process until smooth; set aside.
For the Apple Brandy Sauce:
 1. In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion, bacon, and 
mushrooms and sauté until the bacon is browned and the onion is translucent, about 8 minutes. Pour off most of the fat and return the pan to medium heat.
 2. Add the brandy to the pan, stirring to scrape up any browned bits. Add the apple, 
stock, and demi-glace. Simmer for 10 minutes, then season with salt and pepper to taste. Set aside.
For the Cauliﬂ  ower Gratin:
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 2. In a medium saucepan of boiling salted water, cook the cauliﬂ  ower for 3 minutes. 
Drain and transfer the cauliﬂ  ower to a bowl of ice water to cool. Drain and put the 
cauliﬂ  ower in a 9-by-11-inch baking dish. Set aside.1 hour, 45 minutes
Serv es 6
Winner
WHAT IS . . .
Zahtar?
Zahtar (pronounced “ZAH-tar”) 
is a Middle Eastern spice blend that contains white sesame seeds, dried thyme, and dried ground sumac. 3. In a small saucepan, bring the milk to just below a simmer over low heat. 
 4. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium-low heat and 
add the ﬂ  our. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture is light golden brown, 3 to 
5 minutes. 
 5. Gradually add the milk to the mixture, whisking constantly. Cook until thickened to 
a sauce consistency. Set 3 tablespoons of the cheese aside and add the remaining 
cheese to the sauce a little at a time, whisking constantly to incorporate. Season the sauce with salt and pepper to taste, then pour it over the cauliﬂ  ower. 
 6. Sprinkle the reserved cheese and the cracker crumbs over the cauliﬂ  ower and bake 
for 15 to 20 minutes, until browned and bubbling.
For the Vegetables:
 1. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over medium-high heat and add the 
asparagus. Season with salt and pepper to taste and sauté until just tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Set aside.  
 2. Return the pan to the heat, add more oil if necessary, and add the Brussels sprouts. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste and sauté until well browned and tender, cover-
ing the pan and lowering the heat if they start to brown too quickly, 8 to 10 minutes. Set aside.
 3. Return the pan to the heat, add a bit more oil, and add the tomatoes, cut side down. 
Cook, without turning, until the tomatoes are caramelized and lightly browned but still hold their shape, about 4 minutes. Sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper and set aside.
For the Veal:
 1. Preheat a charcoal grill and set the grate about 6 inches above the coals. 
 2. Lightly brush the grate with oil. When the ﬂ  ames have died down and the coals are 
white, place the veal on the grill. Cook until just done, about 2 minutes on each side. Remove to a large platter and dot each medallion with compound butter.
To Se rve:
 1. Reheat the sauce and stir in any accumulated juices from the veal.
 2. Divide the asparagus, Brussels sprouts, and tomatoes among 6 serving plates. Place 
2 veal medallions on each plate. Spoon a bit of the sauce over each serving and garnish with parsley. Serve immediately, with the gratin on the side.   “I’ve learned that 
Tom doesn’t really 
like grilling, and 
Gail doesn’t like to eat veal, so I’m pretty happy I was able to win with this one!”
CASEY
CHEF AND AUTHOR ANTHONY BOURDAIN, GUEST JUDGE    “I THINK CASEY SHOWED US THINGS THAT YOU LOOK 
FOR IN A CHEF: CREATIVITY AND DARING.”
ENTRÉES: MEAT     115APPETIZERS     117ENTRÉES: MEAT     117CHEF: M arcel 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 10
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a snack using mayonnaise, barbecue sauce, or Italian dressing.Curried Lamb Kabobs
2 cups mayonnaise 
2 teaspoons honey 
1⁄4 cup Madras curry powder
1  pound lamb loin, cut into 1-inch cubes1  portobello mushroom cap, cut into four 
1-inch cubes4 small tomatoesOlive oilSalt and freshly ground black pepper
 1. Preheat a charcoal grill and set the grate about 8 inches above the coals. 
 2. In a small bowl, whisk the mayonnaise, honey, and curry powder together and
 set aside.
 3. In 3 separate small bowls, toss the lamb, mushroom, and tomatoes with oil to coat 
and season with salt and pepper to taste.
 4. Lightly brush the grate with oil. When the ﬂ  ames have died down and the coals are 
white, put the mushroom and lamb cubes on the grill and cook for about 5 minutes, 
turning occasionally, until the mushroom is softened and the lamb is cooked to medium-rare or rare. Place the tomatoes on the grill; cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until blistered and charred. 
 5. Thread the mushroom squares, tomatoes, and lamb cubes onto skewers and place 
the kabobs on 2 serving plates with dollops of curry mayonnaise. Serve immediately.30 minutes
Serves  2
Winner
CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR MIKE YAKURA, GUEST JUDGE    “FANTASTIC. TECHNICALLY DONE VERY, VERY WELL. 
I THOUGHT THE MAYONNAISE REALLY HEIGHTENED THE DISH.”HOW TO:
Spice Up Your 
Mayonnaise
With a little imagination, mayon-
naise can be one of the most versatile sauces at the cook’s disposal. Add a bit of lemon juice and crushed garlic and you have a quick aioli to go with crudités or to spread on crusty bread with grilled summer vegetables. Add chopped capers or corni chons, some minced shallot, and a squeeze of lemon juice to make an elegant tartar sauce for lightly fried ﬁ  sh. Stir in any spice blend 
for an instant dipping sauce: curry powder, Cajun spices, or your own personal blend. The possibilities are limitless. Sitting patiently in the refrigerator door is a miracle waiting to happen.Guest judges come and guest judges 
go, but nobody forgets an episode of 
Top Chef   when Anthony Bourdain sits 
at Judges’ Table. 
He’s cranky, opinionated, and a master of the vicious 
metaphor, but what saves Chef Bourdain from being simply a mean bastard is the genuine love of cooking and chefs that pervades even his nastiest barbs.
Not that that’s of much comfort to those on the receiving 
end. To get scalded by Bourdain’s displeasure is to burn for days; to be brushed by his approval may be the highest compliment a 
Top Chef  con-
testant can get. 
Of course, it’s often hard to 
tell the difference. As a public service, we present the ﬁ  nely 
calibrated Insult-O-Meter.
FEEL THE 
LOVE
“I love you like a son, already. 
Your sheer contrariness, your sheer 
refusal to conform—I kind of like that. 
Your Twice-Baked Potato, in spite of 
its absolutely Flintstonian execution, was, for me, the single most enjoyable mouthful of food I had this evening. The taste—it didn’t suck.”
—on Michael Midgley’s Twice-Baked Potato“It’s too dry, but I kind of like 
that he’s had the balls to go this far out. Astroboy has balls!” 
—on Marcel Vigneron’s Turkey Roulade“What kind of crack house 
are you running here?”
  —to Tom Colicchio at Season 2’s
    Thanksgiving dinner
“I would love this dish if I 
was drunk. I feel I should be eating it at the bar.”
—on Brian Malarkey’s Eel Surf and Turf
118    BEWARE! BOURDAIN  Beware! Bourdain
RUDE“It’s like Betty Crocker and 
Charles Manson had a love 
child, and he’s cooking for me.”
—on Michael Midgley
MOCKING
UNPLEASANT
NASTYFEEL THE BURN
-O-INSULT
METER
“Just thinking about 
that course sends me into a coma.”
—on Betty Fraser’s Chai 
    Pumpkin Crème Brûlée“Salmon is usually a very 
forgiving ﬁ  sh. Not this one. 
Mine was beyond overcooked. 
We’re talking cat-food territory.”
—on Sara Mair’s Seared Salmon
“It was horrifying, unimaginable 
that that could be served in any customer situation. Prison, you couldn’t serve it. It was wretched.”
—on C.J. Jacobsen’s Roasted Broccolini
BEWARE! BOURDAIN      119“I want my food now. 
I want it hot. I want what I ordered.”
—to Howie Kleinberg“Those chops; that was like 
economy class of Air Cambodia.”
  —on Clay Bowen’s Wild Boar ChopsSUYAI
OTTOEMILYJOSIEMARISACARLOSFRANKMIABETTYMICHAELCLIFFELIASAM MARCELILAN
EPISODE 1 EPISODE 2 EPISODE 3 EPISODE 4 *EPISODE 5 EPISODE 6Season 2: Elimination BracketEPISODE 7 EPISODE 8 EPISODE 9 EPISODE 10 EPISODE 11 EPISODE 12 EPISODE 13Winner of title “Top Chef” 
Winner of Elimination Challenge Winner of Quickﬁ  re 
Winner of both Quickﬁ  re and Elimination Challenges 
Contestant EliminatedQuit CompetitionDisqualiﬁ  ed (See page 123)
No one was eliminated
*Season 2: Episode Guide Episode
Winner of Title “Top Chef” Winner of Elimination Challenge Winner of Quickﬁ  re 
Guest JudgeContestant Eliminated1
Into the Fire
Create a ﬂ  ambé dish in a limited 
amount of time.
Prepare a dish using all the ingredi-
ents in a closed crate to be served to 
the other contestants.
This season starts off with a bang as the chefs ﬂ  are up ﬂ  ambés for the Quickﬁ  re, then 
cook for each other with cruel and unusual mystery ingredients. Sam and Ilan feel right at home, but Suyai can’t take the heat and is the ﬁ  rst to go.
Top Chef  winner 
Harold Dieterle
SuyaiSam
IlanFar East Feast
Create a sushi dish for master sushi 
chef Hiroshi Shima.
Split into Team Vietnam and Team 
Korea to prepare dishes using the 
ﬂ avors of each country.
Much to Marcel’s dismay, Cliff impresses the “bad-ass” sushi whiz Hiroshi Shima. Later, 
Betty’s superhuman smile woos the judges and Marisa snitches on Otto, who commits hara-kiri over a crate of stolen lychees.
Chef Hiroshi 
Shima and Chef Ming Tsai 
Otto (Quits)Cliff
Betty
Food for the People
Create an original ice cream ﬂ  avor 
and serve it at the Redondo Beach 
Seaside Lagoon.
Update a childhood classic for TGI Friday’s.
Marcel’s bacon and avocado ice cream gets more grimaces than grins from the kids at Redondo Beach, and Mike is chewed out 
by Tom for managing to make even a steak sandwich taste awful.
Chef Stephen 
Bulgarelli
EmilyCliff
BettyLess Is More
Create an amuse-bouche using ingre-
dients from a vending machine.
Create a meal under 500 calories for 
diabetic and overweight children.
Rolls of quarters in hand, the chefs go shop-
ping in the break room. Ilan fries some corn nuts, Carlos garnishes his veggie loaf with grapefruit soda, and Mike goes more avant-garde than even Marcel. At camp, Frank’s 
pizza gets the kids’ seal of approval, while his teammate Betty bends the rules.
Chef Suzanne 
Goin
No oneCarlos
FrankSocial Service
Create a dish using offal, the leftover 
parts of animals.
Cook a six-course lunch for sixty 
using only leftovers.
Marcel gets vild vith pig’s blood (is he Dracula in disguise?) while for Ilan it’s death by saffron. Still, he and Sam emerge on top again, while miscommunication in the kitchen sends two chefs home.
Chef Michelle 
Bernstein
Josie and 
MarisaSam
Ilan31 2
4 5Season 2
The Knives Come Out
It didn’t take long for 
Season 2 to establish itself 
as a wild and wacky ride. 
Only two episodes in, Otto walked 
off with a crate of lychees and then resigned from the competition. With a historic heat wave in Los Angeles and a cast of characters guaranteed to set off sparks, tempers just rose from there. Betty got things going in the Marcel-bashing sweepstakes. Elia seemed perpetually on the verge of cracking. Mike was, well, Mike. And things devolved into a fascinat-ing simulation of a junior high school cafeteria. The ﬁ  nale in Hawaii between 
Marcel and Ilan was the perfect cap to this emotional season. Thanksgiving
Create a dish using three different 
canned foods.
Reinvent traditional ingredients for a 
cutting-edge Thanksgiving dinner.
After a chocolate catharsis, Elia and her 
mushroom soup give Anthony Bourdain little 
to sneer at. Frank blows a fuse at “Astroboy,” and Carlos hits the road for an uncooked, uninspired salad.
Chef and author 
Anthony Bourdain
CarlosCliff, Frank, Ilan, 
Mia, and Sam
EliaThe Raw and the Cooked
Create an uncooked entrée with fresh 
ingredients from the Redondo Beach Farmers' Market.
Prepare breakfast on the beach for 
surfers.
Frank shakes things up in the Quickﬁ  re (liter-
ally) but he and his quiche fall apart on the beach when the chefs gather round a camp-ﬁ re to cook breakfast. While Marcel chats up 
surfer babes, Elia gets win number two.
Chef Raphael 
Lunetta
FrankMarcel
EliaHoliday Spirit
Create a Baileys® mixed drink and an 
accompanying dish.
Working in two teams of four, cater 
a holiday party for Los Angeles
magazine.
In a team challenge, the chefs split up to 
cater a Hollywood holiday hoedown. Sam and his team ace it with a huge spread, while Elia’s team runs low on food, but not on ten-sion. Mia rants and raves but rescues Elia by sacriﬁ  cing herself.
Mixologist Kris-
tin Woodward, Chef Lee Hefter, and Ted Allen 
Mia (Quits)Cliff
Sam
Seven
Create a dish based on a color drawn 
from the knife block.
Create a seven-course meal, with 
each course representing one of the seven deadly sins.
Cliff ﬂ  ies (color) blind in the Quickﬁ  re, and 
is no match for Mike. Down one tooth and hopped up on painkillers, everyone’s favorite underdog pulls a 
Top Chef  hat trick. 
Ted Allen and 
Chef Robert Ivan
BettyMichael
MichaelUnhappy Customers
Create a snack using three Kraft®
Foods products: mayonnaise, barbe-
cue sauce, or Italian dressing.
Divide into two teams and turn an 
empty space into a restaurant in twenty-four hours.
Oreo hockey pucks and nauseating gnocchi mean no one wins Restaurant Wars. The team leaders get spared for once; it’s the sous chefs and wait staff who take the brunt of the judges’ wrath.
Chef Mike 
Yakura
MichaelMarcel and Sam
No oneSense and Sensuality
Create a dish using Nestlé 
Chocolatier® products.
Create a romantic ﬁ  ve-course menu.
It’s chaos in the kitchen as Elia, riding high off of a Quickﬁ  re thumbs-up from Chef 
Eric Ripert, stresses over her dessert. Later, Cliff joins the pick-on-Marcel club with a “hair”-brained plan that goes too far and is 
forced to leave the competition.
Chef Eric Ripert
Cliff 
(Disqualiﬁ  ed)Sam
No one
Hawaii Finale: Part 1
Rethink two classic Hawaiian dishes.
The chefs touch down in Hawaii and, for 
once, get an afternoon off to enjoy a tradi-tional Hawaiian feast. The fun soon ends, though, when they are told to remake what they just ate, adding their own twists to the classic dishes.
Chef Alan Wong
Elia and SamIlan and MarcelHawaii Finale: Part 2
Prepare a ﬁ  ve-course meal to be 
served to a table of luminaries from 
the culinary world.
Marcel and Ilan battle it out on the Big Island. Mike and Sam swallow their pride (kind of) and help Marcel as he asks, “Where’s the ﬁ sh?!” Betty, Elia, and Ilan are one happy 
family, and Ilan’s safe but savory food gets him the crown.
Chefs Michelle 
Bernstein, Scott Conant, Hubert Keller, Wylie 
Dufresne, and Roy Yamaguchi
Marcel Ilan6
1297 8
10 11
13TOP STATS  
Age
25
Hometown
Great Neck, NY
Currently
Living in Brooklyn
Favorite piece of equipment
Short plancha spatula
Chefs he most admires
Andy Nussen, 
Raphael Ray Hall, 
and Ramiro Tacuri
Favorite judge or guest judge
Gail Simmons
Philosophy
“Every time you change the format in which you’re doing your craft, you learn more.”
Featured recipes
Spanish Tortilla, p. 45
Pork Shoulder, p. 77
Baked Escargot, p. 80Lau Lau, p. 81Korean Pork, p. 109
Gazpacho, p. 162Fideos, p. 164
124    ILAN HALL“I wanna be 
famous.”
ILANIlan Hall
SEASON 2:WINNER
WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 1 QUICKFIRE
Season 2 seemed to be as much about mind games as cook-
ing, and the man who proved himself best at both was winner 
Ilan Hall, the hipster line cook from New York’s Casa Mono. 
As good as he was at turning out Spanish-inﬂ  uenced delicacies, he was at least as good 
at falling into the kind of cliquish drama you might ﬁ  nd in a high school cafeteria. Some 
Marcel fans may have looked at him and seen a bit of a bully, but it’s undeniable that Ilan 
won the loyalty of his housemates and the admiration of the judges. And he scored the ultimate victory by defeating Marcel head-to-head in the ﬁ  nale. 
On the very ﬁ  rst episode, you said you wanted to be famous. How’s that working out? 
I think I was just excited to be there. I had all these things running through my head. I said it and I meant it, but it was more important that I be respected for what I was doing. That people liked what I was cooking.
Was it a weird experience to watch yourself on TV? 
It was interesting, not weird. For six weeks, you have cameras in your face, so you’re 
already used to a really weird lifestyle. I was prepared. It was exciting. The weirdest part 
is that people come up and talk to me as though they know who I am.
Are they angry with you about how you treated Marcel?  
Yeah. I get some of that. But you have to understand a few things. One, people weren’t 
there, living the experience with us. Two, they’re seeing us on television and judging our entire personalities on one or two clips. It’s not real life. So I can’t take people too seri-ously. They don’t really know what they’re talking about. 
Do you regret anything that happened?
Not really. You get aggravated sometimes. It’s a stressful situation and you react in cer-tain ways. There was no deep -seated hate or anything like that. We just didn’t get along. 
Besides, you can’t regret anything in life. You learn something from every experience. 
Does it bother you when people complain that you can only cook Spanish food? 
Everything I made showed my cooking skill. If anything, I was more challenged than the 
other chefs because I used only one cuisine. Chefs study their whole lives to master one cuisine. You go to a French restaurant and they’re cooking French recipes. So, I thought that was kind of silly. 
Your biggest victory was over Sam in the next-to-last episode. And Padma thought your 
taro was undercooked. 
Well, Padma was wrong.
CHEF AND AUTHOR ANTHONY BOURDAIN, GUEST JUDGE     “ILAN WAS VERY 
SHREWD. HE SURVIVED LARGELY ON RECIPES FROM CASA MONO, AND 
THERE’S NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT. I HAVE NO PROBLEM WITH A SMART PROFESSIONAL WITH A REALISTIC VIEW OF HIS STRENGTHS AND WEAK-NESSES BEATING OUT A MORE TALENTED BUT LESS WISE CONTESTANT.”
ILAN HALL     125IT’S MORE THAN 
JUST SAFFRON . . .
If Ilan’s rise to the title of Top 
Chef accomplished one thing, it was making Americans more aware than ever of Spanish food. While less celebrated, the dishes of Spain have much in common with those of Italy. Both focus on the strength of fresh, earthy ingredients and do great things with olive oil, pork, and seafood. Spanish cuisine shows the inﬂ  u-
ence not only of its Mediterra-nean neighbors, but of nearby Africa and of the Moors who 
once ruled the Iberian peninsula.
 Ilan got his Spanish training at 
the New York restaurant Casa Mono, and he bristles at the no-tion that he failed to show range. If anything, he points out, “the fact that I was able to win using Spanish cooking proves what a large and inclusive cuisine it is.”
 Ironically, by far the most famous 
and inﬂ  uential Spanish chef of 
the past decade is Ferran Adrià, who cooks a very different incar-nation of Spanish cuisine. In fact, he’s most famous for one innova-tion: Marcel’s beloved foam.
126    MARCEL VIGNERONTOP STATS  
Age
27
Hometown
Bainbridge, WA
Currently
Living in Las Vegas, 
where he recently helped open Company American Bistro
Favorite piece of equipment
Vita-Prep blender
Chefs he most admires
Ferran Adrià, Thomas 
Keller, Joel Robuchon, 
and Alice Waters
Favorite fast food
In-N-Out Burger’s Double-Double
® 
Animal® Style
Philosophy
“Studying the science of food ultimately makes me a better cook.”
Featured recipes
Watermelon Trio, p. 74
Pork Shoulder, p. 77
Hamachi Poke, p. 83
Korean Pork, p. 109
Lamb Kabobs, p. 117Tempura Vegetables, p. 186
Potato Cannoli, p. 228
Blini, p. 229 [Rapping] “You 
say my food lacks 
fundamentals like salt and peppa and I’m like, yo man, whatever!”
MARCELMarcel Vigneron
SEASON 2
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 13, “HAWAII FINALE: PART 2”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 2 QUICKFIRES
Through the ﬁ  rst three seasons of Top Chef , there have been 
42 contestants. None has been as memorable, as divisive, as 
confusing, as infuriating, or as downright strange as Marcel. 
Short in stature, large in hair, Marcel arrived on the show promising to blow the competi-
tion away with his skills at molecular gastronomy. That he did, making it all the way up to the season ﬁ  nale. But it was his personality that caused the biggest chemical reactions. 
It wasn’t always clear why but, one by one, Marcel’s housemates lost their temper with the chef. They called him a gnat, a know-it-all, a cheat, and pretty much everything else under the sun. Eventually, to Cliff’s eternal regret, they even tackled him on video. Marcel mostly brushed it off, occasionally venting in deﬁ  ant culinary raps on the roof. Whether 
you pitied him as a picked-on geek or wanted desperately to beat him up yourself, Marcel 
achieved one thing for sure: he was impossible to ignore. 
Did you feel like you were accurately portrayed on the show? 
A lot of my friends who watched the show got a huge kick out of it. You know, the arro-gant, egotistical, antisocial Marcel. Because I’m very social. I get along great with people. 
So why do you think people had such a problem with you?  
I take what I do very seriously. I have a lot of passion for my craft. And I don’t really care what people think about me. When Elia turned against me at the end, I was like, What!? It was totally out of left ﬁ  eld. But it’s hard to be independent when you have Sam and Ilan 
whispering in your ears. I think they were kind of desperate because I was killing it. 
How could you pick Michael to help you in the ﬁ  nale? 
Michael totally went to bat for me. He was like, “ What’s next, chef? What’s next?” He 
helped a lot more than Sam did.Are you still making foams? 
I don’t even use the term “molecular gastronomy” anymore. I felt like I was becoming kind of pigeonholed by that. Like any artist—and I consider myself a culinary artist—I go through phases and when I was on the show I just wanted to be as creative as possible: pile garnish on top of garnish on top of garnish. Since then, I’ve been becoming more reﬁ ned. Like, sometimes I just want to make a roast chicken or a classic caprese salad.  
Is there anything you would have changed about your time on 
Top Chef ?
There were a couple of times when I was sitting at home thinking, Dude, you should have kept your mouth shut. You look like such a prick. But, without being cocky or arrogant, I’m not going to change just because people don’t like me. I’m happy with who I am. 
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE     “MARCEL HAS A VERY QUIRKY PERSON-
ALITY. HE’S NOT A BAD GUY; HE’S JUST A KID WHO DIDN’T ALWAYS KNOW 
WHAT HE WAS DOING. NOWADAYS, THE FOAMS HAVE BECOME SUCH A MOVEMENT, AND HE REALLY THOUGHT HE WAS DOING IT, BUT MOST OF THE STUFF DIDN’T WORK.”
MARCEL VIGNERON     127ALL ABOUT FOAM
As Marcel would be the ﬁ  rst to 
tell you, “molecular gastronomy” 
hardly began with him. All cook-ing, of course, is based in sci-ence—the interaction of heat and protein, acid and base, and so on. In the 1980s, however, chefs and scientists began exploring a new kind of cooking that made use of advanced chemistry in pursuit of new ﬂ  avors. None is more famous 
or inﬂ  uential than Ferran Adrià, 
chef of the restaurant El Bulli in Catalonia, Spain. Adrià closes his restaurant, often called the best in Europe, for six months a year to travel and work in his Barcelona laboratory. 
Meanwhile, foams have swept the 
culinary world. In America, the most famous molecular gastrono-mist is none other than 
Top Chef  
guest judge Wylie Dufresne, in-ventor of deep-fried mayonnaise. Now that would have made one hell of a Quickﬁ  re!  
128    SAM TALBOTTOP STATS  
Age
30
Hometown
Charlotte, NC
Currently
Opening a restaurant 
in New York City
Chefs he most admires
Wylie Dufresne, Tom Douglas, James Burns, and Suzanne Goin
Go-to ingredient
Vinegar
Favorite comfort food
Ranch Dressing
Philosophy
“I cook light and seasonal.”
Featured recipes
Pork Shoulder, p. 77
Beignets, p. 96
Espresso Shrimp, p. 167
Fruit Salad, p. 187“If I could have 
an IV running 
mayonnaise through my veins, I probably would.”
SAMSEASON 2: FAN FAVORITE
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 12, “HAWAII FINALE: PART 1”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 5 QUICKFIRES
In a season when so many of the characters seemed to fall 
into high school stereotypes, it was probably inevitable that there be one tall, dark, sensitive chef that indisputably earned the title of “Top Hunk.” 
That chef was Sam Talbot—he of the sideburns and bandannas, of the soft voice and 
strong hands, quietly coping with diabetes. Even when he snapped and went on a long tirade against Marcel, it was hard to hate the guy or doubt his abilities. His performance in Hawaii was so strong that Tom, Padma, and Gail argued deep into the night about whether Sam should advance to the ﬁ  nale instead of Ilan. It was one of the most conten-
tious Judges’ Tables ever. All in all, not a bad run for a guy whose mom worried he wasn't smiling enough. 
Has life changed much since the show aired?
Yes, a year ago I would never have thought so many doors would open or that I’d meet so 
many great people because of the wide success of the show. It is still very humbling to have people approach me, whether I’m shopping for food or I’m walking down a street. It’s just been a great experience, all-around.
Why was there so much drama during Season 2? 
For some reason, it was really cliquey. Instantly. You could easily pick up on it at home: 
there were the cool kids and the dork and the older guys. But that’s part of what draws people to watch the show. 
Is there any animosity between you and Ilan, since he essentially beat you out for a spot 
in the ﬁ  nale?
In retrospect, I’m glad I didn’t win. I mean, monetarily it would have been nice. But I don’t have a giant bull’s-eye on my back. 
How was the experience of watching yourself on TV? 
Before every episode I would literally have a panic attack, because even though you were there, you can’t remember everything you said. You know, you’ve just slept for two hours or you haven’t eaten for ﬁ  fteen hours and they’re asking you questions. 
Did you see any moments you regretted?I think I look miserable and unhappy throughout the thing. My mother kept asking why I didn’t smile. But I was kind of miserable. I’m an only child, and I’m not used to living and being around so many people, especially seven other guys. It took a little getting used to, and, of course, it was a little nerve-racking sometimes. 
To judge by the blogs, you being miserable and nutty is very attractive to women.  
I know. Maybe I should keep that look going. 
SAM TALBOT     129SAM’S RECIPE 
FOR A ROMANTIC 
DINNER
“To me, there’s nothing sexier 
than bringing your date to the 
green market with you, to get inspired together and plan a menu. Just talk to her: ‘What do you like? Doesn’t this butternut squash look good? How do you like it prepared?’ If you’re both involved from the get-go, it’s much more intimate.
 “Then, instead of her just show-
ing up to a ﬁ  nished meal, have 
her come to the kitchen and be a 
part of the cooking experience. Put some music on the iPod. Let her taste things. Food is very sexual, you know, whether you’re peeling pomegranates and pop-ping the seeds in her mouth or sharing a strawberry or whatever. In my experience, it tends to lead to different kinds of fun a little later in the evening.”   Sam Talbot
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE     “I’VE HUNG OUT WITH SAM, DOING 
EVENTS. I’VE COOKED WITH HIM. I LIKE HIM; I THINK HE’S A GOOD GUY. 
HE HASN’T LET THIS STUFF GET TO HIS HEAD.”
130    ELIA ABOUMRADtop stats  
Age
29
Hometown
Mexico City, Mexico
Currently
Living in Las Vegas
Number of culinary degrees
34
Philosophy
“There has to be  
definition in your dish,  
a definite taste that 
comes out. The others 
just supplement it.”
Featured recipes
Waffle, p. 39
Korean Pork, p. 109
Roasted Chicken, p. 155
Portobello Crème, p. 193
Cheesecake, p. 240“Smart people  
decide to do what 
they like to do,  
not what the  
world thinks.”
eLiaElia Aboumrad
SEASON 2
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 12, “HAWAII FINALE: PART 1”WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 0 QUICKFIRES
Season 2 of Top Chef  will probably always be remembered for 
devolving into a contest of wills and words between boys—Ilan 
and company on one hand, Marcel on the other. But there was one woman right in the thick of it. 
Elia hardly looked like a formidable contestant when the competition began, choosing 
red wine for the very ﬁ  rst ﬂ ambé Quickﬁ  re. But, as the weeks went by, she emerged as a 
force to be reckoned with, scoring perhaps her biggest triumph with a festive, extrava-gant roast chicken when asked to embody pride during the seven deadly sins challenge. 
Elia also showed herself to be temperamental and even a little mischievous. Angry and dispirited after a bad day, she let it all out by smearing chocolate over her face. And, of course, there was the infamous head-shaving incident and her accusations that Marcel was cheating, delivered at Judges’ Table moments before she was eliminated. For all that, Elia remains deﬁ  ant. “Really,” she says, “I don’t regret anything.”
Did you have trouble with the living situation? I have a huge family, so I grew up sharing everything—apartments, rooms, beds. So that wasn’t hard. What’s tough is that everything is on the record—you have a camera when 
you wake up and a camera when you go to bed—and you don’t know how it will be used. 
There were times when you seemed to be going a little crazy.  
I did go off the deep end a little. I was always tired and hungry and I didn’t agree with a lot of things—like how long they made us wait. Things you wouldn’t go through as a chef. I mean, I know what it’s like to work in harsh kitchens, working eighteen-hour days. I’ve done that. But cook out of a vending machine? I’ve never been in situations like that. 
How did you wind up shaving your head?  
I did it because I really wanted to do it, not for any other reason. I don’t even drink. I never get drunk. I wanted to do it since I was like ﬁ  fteen years old. And Ilan said, “If you 
do it, we’ll all do it.” So it seemed like good timing. 
Did you regret how that night turned out? 
No, I do not regret it. We had a lot of fun and I think Marcel should have just let us shave his head, too. He would have had as much fun as we did and would have had that super cool memory of the show. It would have brought him closer to all of us! 
It seemed a little mean, like you’d turned on him. 
Well, he was mean the whole show. We are friends now, but he was rude. He insulted 
people. That’s why people hated him. He did things that made people want to smack him. 
SHAUNA MINOPRIO, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER   “I GOT A CALL THAT ELIA HAD 
SHAVED HER HAIR. I COULDN’T BELIEVE IT. WE STILL HAD TO INTERVIEW 
HER ABOUT THE LAST TWO SHOWS AND SHE HAD NO BLOODY HAIR! SO I SPOKE TO HAIR AND MAKE-UP AND WE FIGURED OUT HOW WE COULD GET ELIA A WIG TO DO THE INTERVIEWS. IT WAS EXTREMELY ANNOYING.”
132    CLIFF CROOKS“It’s food, it’s not 
rocket science. It’s 
really just innate; whatever I feel is what I do.”
CLIFF
TOP STATS  
Age
29
Hometown
New York, NY
Currently
Living in New York City
Lucky charm during the 
competition
27-year-old T-shirt from 
his former boss
Secret splurge at the 
grocery store
Cookies
Philosophy
“Be true to the product.”
Featured recipes
Hama Hama Oysters, p. 85
Korean Pork, p. 109
Cookie Ice Cream, p. 234Cliff Crooks
SEASON 2
DISQUALIFIED: EPISODE 11, “SENSE AND SENSUALITY”WINS: 0 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 4 QUICKFIRES
In his application to be on Top Chef , Cliff Crooks noticed that 
he was usually so intense in the kitchen that his colleagues 
often thought he was angry. That intensity served him well during Season 2 when—for the ﬁ  rst ten episodes at least—in 
the midst of turbulent drama on every side, he was a rock of poise and consistently excellent cooking.  
Then came one bad night, the last night in Los Angeles, when things got out of hand in 
the Top Chef  house. By wrestling with Marcel, Cliff violated a contest rule and, after a 
day of deliberations among the judges, he was disqualiﬁ  ed. (It was small consolation 
that his performance in the previous day’s challenge would likely have gotten him sent home anyway.) “Once the decision came down, I didn’t argue,” Cliff now says. “I was going to take it like a man.” That kind of grace makes it possible to remember the sweeter times (like Marshmallow and Cookie Ice Cream) instead of just the way he left.
How do you look back on your 
Top Chef  experience now?  
It was great. I wouldn’t change anything. Nothing at all?  
Cooking is one of the things I’m most passionate about. So to be able to go on and do what I do every day . . . that’s what drew me to the show to begin with. 
Had you watched the ﬁ  rst season?  
I wish I’d watched more, in retrospect. I really didn’t know how crazy it would get. Like, 
you get to sleep after midnight and they wake you up at 3:30 a.m. It gets to the point where you’re like, “What are you guys doing to me?”
What about living in the house? 
I hadn’t done anything like that since college. You do start to get a little itchy. The ﬁ  rst 
two weeks, you’re getting to know each other, making new friends. By week three, you’re thinking, “How am I going to get away from all my new friends?”
Let’s talk about the circumstances of you leaving. Did you watch that episode?
I did. It was a little difﬁ  cult. I don’t want to say it looked worse than it was, because it 
looked pretty bad. What you saw is what ha ppened. It was a joke gone really sour. I’ve 
apologized for it numerous times and I think we’ve all sort of moved on.
Did you make up with Marcel? 
After the show, I was in Vegas and I visited him in his restaurant. Everything was great. 
Did he serve you some kind of foam?  Yes, he did. Yes, he did. 
SHAUNA MINOPRIO, EXECUTIVE PRODUCER   “ONE OF THE CREW 
MEMBERS ASKED ME FOR A CAMERA, AND I SAID, ‘YEAH, SURE.’ I’D GIVEN 
CAMERAS TO CASTS BEFORE. HOW MUCH TROUBLE COULD YOU GET INTO? SO I FELT VERY SORRY FOR CLIFF—IT WAS JUST A DUMB MISTAKE.”
Betty Fraser
SEASON 2
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 9, “SEVEN”WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 0 QUICKFIRES
It was always hard to know what to make of Betty. At ﬁ  rst 
glance, she was the sweet, maternal type: quick with the 
bright smile, the nurturing word, and the commonsense solu-tion. So it was a bit of a shock, after a few episodes, to see her start to mix it up with other contestants—whether that meant ﬁ  ghting back when accused of slipping extra sugar into 
a “healthy kids” menu (she still claims it wasn’t cheating) or, most famously, blowing up at Marcel. 
There was never any question that this sunny Californian had a stormy side. Perhaps it 
came from the toughness required to change jobs later in life than most and become a caterer. But whether you thought Betty was a Mean Girl or Earth Mother, what you could say for sure is that she lasted longer in the 
Top Chef  competition than many would have 
guessed, deploying a combination of charm, kitchen chops, and what she proudly calls comfort food. 
A year and a half on, how do you feel about your 
Top Chef  experience?
Overall, it’s been great. I had no idea what the world of reality television was all about, 
and I’m still amazed by how often I’m approached by fans of the show. They usually want 
to know what it was like around the set and I let them know that, while it was a lot of fun, we were often hot, tired, and under a lot of self-imposed pressure to win.
Is that what made you so testy?  
My “testy level” is actually pretty high. I work in a high-energy environment everyday and I couldn’t make it unless I had some balance. But there were a couple of “perfect storms” during the show and I spoke my mind. Marcel and I are actually thinking about creating an act and taking it on the road. We’ll just cook and argue for an hour and say good night.
Is Ilan really a nice guy?  
Ilan is a nice guy as well as being a very talented, focused chef. Nothing but kudos for Ilan.
Was it weird being one of the older contestants and living with a bunch of kids? 
I’ve noticed that when people who love what they do get together, age becomes irrel-
evant. Of course, it wasn’t so irrelevant that I wasn’t usually the ﬁ  rst to go to bed.
Did you feel like it was really you up there on-screen?Oh, it was me all right! Because the cameras are always around, they just kind of meld into the background and you forget they’re there. There were a couple of moments that were a little embarrassing. I was watching with my ex-husband the night I blew up at Marcel and he turned to me and said, “I know that voice.” I guess they don’t call it “reality TV” for nothing!
134    BETTY FRASERTOP STATS  
Age
46
Hometown
San Francisco, CA
Currently
Co-owner of Grub 
Restaurant and As You 
Like It Catering in Hollywood, CA
Chefs she most admires
Jamie Oliver and Nigella Lawson
Person she’d most like to make
a meal for
Harrison Ford
What she would serve
Root vegetable risotto 
with an herb-rubbed T-bone steak
Philosophy
“Be happy . . . it’s better than the alternative.”
Featured recipes
Ham and Egg, p. 47
Pork Shoulder, p. 77
Mussels, p. 176Grilled Cheese, p. 194Carlos Fernandez
SEASON 2
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 6, “THANKSGIVING”WINS: 0 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 1 QUICKFIRE 
Season 2 of Top Chef  may be best remembered for interper-
sonal turmoil and drama, but somebody forgot to send Carlos 
Fernandez the memo. Maybe it was just that he was older than 
most of his fellow contestants. Or maybe years living and run-ning a restaurant, Hi-Life Café, in South Florida better pre-pared him for dealing with different personalities in the midst of a Los Angeles heat wave. 
Whatever the reason, while his fellow contestants sniped and squabbled around him, 
Carlos ﬂ  oated above it all, smiling the whole way. If anything, his only beefs were with 
the judges, as when he memorably told Tom Colicchio that one of his dishes might not have been great but it wasn’t “crap on a plate.”
 Carlos also displayed a keen eye for summing up his competitors. (On Sam Talbot: “He’s 
blessed. He could sneeze on a plate and it would come out gorgeous.”) Since leaving the show, he’s put that skill to good use on the Spanish-language cooking video webcast he hosts for BravoTV.com. And he’s just as sunny now as he was on the show. “I came here from Cuba when I was one year old,” he says. “I feel like I’m living the American dream.”  
Why do you think you wound up getting along with people so well? 
My fellow contestants just charmed me. I came planning to compete and run everyone else into the ground, but by the time I left I just fell in love with each and every one of them. 
Everybody else seemed to have trouble with Marcel. 
I just thought Marcel was a little immature. So my strategy was to treat him kindly. I wish 
I had been there for the video incident. I would have put an end to that immediately.What about Mike? 
Mikey was a hoot. There was one point when he lost a bet to Frank and had to sing the national anthem. Imagine Roseanne Barr, but larger and uglier. That’s Mikey. 
Was it weird living with so many young people? 
I’m thirty-seven. I hadn’t shared a bedroom since college! You know, when you get home 
from the show, you go through “
Top Chef  depression.” You kind of need to be reinte-
grated into society. For me, I spent a lot of time wondering, “What would it have been like if I was twenty-ﬁ  ve? If I had more energy and stamina?” Because it’s really physically and 
mentally exhausting. 
What would you tell a contestant going on the show? 
By all means, go ahead, but don’t think it’s as easy as it looks. It’s much easier to play armchair chef. 
TOP STATS  
Age
38
Hometown
Hoboken, NJ
Currently
Co-owner and executive 
chef of Hi-Life Café in Fort Lauderdale, FL
Chefs he admires
Julia Child and Graham Kerr
Philosophy
“I never want to be pigeonholed. My gimmick is affordable, contempo-rary American cuisine.”
Featured recipes
Carrot Loaf, p. 191“It’s not about 
you, it’s about the 
competition.”
CARLOS FERNANDEZ     135   Suyai Steinhauer
136    SEASON 2Otto Borsich Emily Sprissler Marisa Churchill
“Do I use my 
sexuality to my 
advantage? Damn right.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 5, “Social 
Service”
Marisa might have been 
more of a gossip than a gourmand, spending too much time backstabbing and too little watching her own knives. A sliced ﬁ nger made her one of the 
season’s ﬁ  rst injured, but 
it was a 
spoon full of 
Pepto-Bismol  that sent 
her home.
Featured recipe
Korean Pork, p. 109“I’m not a mass-
producer. I’m 
not a turn-and-burner.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 3, “Food for 
the People”
Emily might not have made 
it to the end of the season, but she sure had the right attitude. From insulting her customers in the ice cream challenge to bad-mouthing her fellow contestants, Emily was 
as high-
minded as the best 
of them . It’s too bad she 
never had the chance to 
face off with Stephen.“What do I know 
about sushi? I’m 
just a round-eye from Cleveland, Ohio.”
BIO BITE  
Packed his knives 
Episode 2, “Far 
East Feast” 
Otto was the focus of 
Season 2’s Great Lychee 
Scandal , in which he may 
or may not have walked out of the supermarket with a stolen case of the tropical fruit. Plenty of drama and tattling followed, until Otto, 
trying to save face, chose to remove himself from the competition.
Featured recipe
Korean Pork, p. 109“I have never 
cooked so badly 
in my life.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 1, “Into 
the Fire”
During her oh-so-short 
stay on Season 2, no one can say Suyai wasn’t entertaining to watch. A bizarrely devious Elimina-tion Challenge sent her into a 
downward spiral of 
tears, frustration, and 
panic  before she ﬁ  nally 
threw up her hands in des-
peration. She was the ﬁ  rst 
victim of the most tumultu-ous season yet.
Josie Smith-Malave Frank Terzoli Mia Gaines-Alt      Michael Midgley
“I don’t care 
about other 
chefs. I cook good food.”
BIO BITE  
Packed his knives 
Episode 10, “Unhappy 
Customers”
From his phallic chocolate 
Cheetos to his painkiller-
fueled Quickﬁ  re/Elimination stunner
, 
Mike was a contestant 
for the ages. Who knows how this burly frat boy got as far as he did, but it’s a good thing the judges kept him around so long. Where would we be without lines like, “It’s cool to be cool”?
Featured recipe
Trout and Salmon, 
p. 168“I’m a profes-
sional barbecue-
ologist.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 8, “Holiday 
Spirit”
Best remembered for her 
cowboy hats and corn-ﬂ ake battered frog legs, 
Mia brought a Southern 
sense of style —and 
honor—to the competition. Tough as nails, she chewed 
out Cliff for bossing her around and put her own neck on the chopping block to save Elia from an early exit.
Featured recipe
Crabcakes, p. 49“A true chef is a 
gentleman, and 
shall remain that way.”
BIO BITE
Packed his knives 
Episode 7 , “The Raw 
and the Cooked”
For a nice guy, Frank sure 
was at the center of a lot 
of controversies, whether it was defending Otto or 
threatening to kill 
Marcel for touching his toothbrush
. Asked if 
he had any regrets look-
ing back on the season, he didn’t hesitate to invoke that last incident: “I should have hit him.”
Featured recipes
Mini Quiches, p. 76
Pizza, p. 100Korean Pork, p. 109“I’m the chef’s 
hit man.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 5, “Social 
Service”
Josie was almost as much 
of a brash Brooklyn 
bulldog  as Joey and 
Howie from Season 3, letting Betty have it when she slipped extra sugar into her supposedly diet-friendly cookies. Maybe she should have re-thought the muddled intermezzo that sent her home.
SEASON 2     137
Entrées: Poultry
146144140
Casey’s  Coq au Vin 
with Whipped Potatoes, Sautéed Ramps, and Asparagus 
Harold’s  Pan-Roasted Quail 
with Herb Spaetzle, Cherries, and Foie Gras
Brian’s  Spring Harvest Pheasant’s Pie
with Chicken, Pheasant Sausage, Potato, and Ramp Puree  
C.J. and Tre’s  Black Trufﬂ  e and 
Parmesan Linguine
with Kale, Tomato Conﬁ  t, and Grilled Chicken 
Hung’s  Sous-Vide Duck with Trufﬂ  e-
Scented Broth 
and Mushroom Ragout 
Lee Anne’s  Chicken in Red Curry Sauce 
Casey and Dale’s  Turkey and Pork Meatballs 
with Orecchiette Pasta and Spinach-Almond Pesto 140
142
143
144
146
147
149155152149
Tre’s Seared Ostrich Fillet 
with Heirloom Tomato Risotto and Abalone Sauce 
Brian and Sara N.’s  Chicken Rigatoni 
with Bell Peppers, Kalamata Olives, and Sun-Dried Tomatoes 
Hung’s  Poached Black Chicken and 
Raw Geoduck 
with Fennel 
Elia’s  Roasted Chicken with Vegetables 150
152
153
155CHEF: Casey 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 12
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Turn an onion, a potato, and a chicken into a meal for chefs at the French Culinary Institute.Coq au Vin  
with Whipped Potatoes, Sautéed Ramps, and Asparagus 
6 skinless chicken thighs
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon 
grapeseed oil 
8 ounces bacon, ﬁ  nely chopped
1  small white onion, chopped1  tablespoon tomato paste1  tomato, roughly chopped1  bay leaf3 cups red wine3 sprigs fresh thyme, plus more for garnish1 
1⁄2 to 2 cups low-sodium chicken stock4 russet potatoes, peeled and cut into 
1-inch pieces
1  cup heavy cream9 tablespoons cold salted butter1  tablespoon mascarpone12 cipollini onions, blanched and peeled1  tablespoon olive oil1  bunch ramps (optional)1  bunch asparagus (1 
1⁄2 pounds), halved 
lengthwise
1  tablespoon chopped fresh dillJuice of 
1⁄2 lemon
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Season the chicken with salt and pepper. In a large 
oven-safe sauté pan or skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the grapeseed oil over medium-
high heat. Add the chicken and cook until browned on both sides, about 10 minutes. Remove the chicken from the pan and set aside.
 2. Pour off all but 1 tablespoon of the fat from the pan. Add the bacon and cook over 
medium-high heat, stirring, for about 5 minutes; pour off most of the fat. Add the onion and cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Add the tomato paste, tomato, and bay leaf. Reduce the heat to medium-low and cook, stirring constantly, for 5 minutes. 
 3. Add the wine and stir to scrape up any browned bits. Cook for 10 minutes. Return 
the chicken to the pan, add the thyme and enough stock to cover the chicken, andcover the pan. Place the pan in the oven and bake for 1 hour. Turn the thighs over. Bake, uncovered, for 15 minutes longer.
 4. Cook the potatoes in a pot of boiling water for 15 to 20 minutes, until tender. Drain 
and return the potatoes to the pot; place over low heat for 1 to 2 minutes, shaking the pot, until the potatoes are dry. Pass through a ricer into a large bowl and use a wooden spoon to gradually beat in the cream and 7 tablespoons of the butter, beat-ing until the potatoes pull away from the sides of the bowl. Stir in the mascarpone and season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
 5. In a sauté pan or skillet, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter with the remaining 1 tea-
spoon grapeseed oil over medium-high heat. Add the cipollini onions and season with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes, until browned and cooked through.
 6. In a second sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil and the remaining 1 tablespoon 
butter over medium-high heat. Add the ramps, if using, and asparagus. Cook, stir-ring, until just tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the dill and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
 7. Spoon the potatoes onto serving plates. Put 1 thigh on each plate and spoon some of the sauce over it. Arrange the cipollini, asparagus, and ramps on the plates, garnish with thyme, and serve immediately.2 hours, 45 minutes
Serv es 6
“This wasn’t pre-
tentious. It was 
well done, and it had a lot of ﬂ  avor.”
JACQUES TORRES, FRENCH CULINARY INSTITUTE DEAN, GUEST JUDGE
140   ENTRÉES: POULTRY142    ENTRÉES: POULTRYCHEF: Harold
SEASON 1, EPISODE 12ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.Pan-Roasted Quail  
with Herb Spaetzle, Cherries, and Foie Gras
4 quail 
3 cups low-sodium chicken stock2 
1⁄2 tablespoons unsalted butter
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1  cup pitted fresh cherries
1⁄4 cup portFour 1⁄2-inch-thick slices foie gras, veins 
and imperfections trimmed off
2 tablespoons olive oil
Herb Spaetzle (see left)
  1. Debone the quail: using poultry shears or kitchen scissors, cut out the backbone of 
each quail (reserve the bones); lay the quail out skin side down. With a sharp boning 
knife, cut just under the ribs on each side and remove the ribs. Remove the breast cartilage by sliding the knife underneath it and pulling it out. Cut out any remaining small bones, leaving the legs and thighs intact. Set the quail aside.
 2. In a medium sauté pan or skillet over high heat, cook the reserved bones, turning 
frequently, until well browned on all sides, about 5 minutes. Add the stock, bring to a boil, and cook for 15 to 20 minutes, until the liquid is reduced to about 
1⁄2 cup. Pour 
through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve set over a bowl and whisk in 1 tablespoon of the butter. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste and set the jus aside.
 3. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, melt 1⁄2 tablespoon of the butter over medium-high 
heat and add the cherries. Sauté until softened, about 3 minutes. Add the port and cook for 1 minute. Add the jus and cook for about 5 minutes, until reduced to a sauce consistency. Pour into a bowl and set aside, covered to keep warm.
 4. Score the foie gras in a shallow diamond pattern on each side. Cover and put in the 
freezer for a few minutes. 
 5. In each of 2 large sauté pans or skillets, heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium-high 
heat. Season the quail with salt and pepper and add 2 quail to each pan, skin side down. Cook, turning once, until well browned and cooked through, 7 to 10 minutes total, lowering the heat if the quail are browning too quickly. Remove to a large plate and tent with aluminum foil.
 6. Put the remaining 1 tablespoon butter in a medium sauté pan or skillet over medium-
high heat. When the foam has subsided and the butter is just starting to brown, add 1 cup of the spaetzle (reserve the rest for another use). Cook, tossing to coat with the butter, until heated through, about 2 minutes.
 7. Meanwhile, heat a medium sauté pan or skillet over high heat for 1 minute. Add the foie gras and cook for 30 to 45 seconds on each side, until golden brown.
 8. Divide the spaetzle among 4 serving plates. Put a quail and a slice of foie gras on 
each plate. Spoon a few cherries and sauce around the plate. Serve.2 hours
Serv es 4
ON THE SIDE: 
Herb Spaetzle
2 1⁄4 cups all-purpose ﬂ  our
1  teaspoon saltLarge pinch of white pepperLarge pinch of freshly grated 
nutmeg
3 large eggs, beaten
3⁄4 cup milk
3 tablespoons minced fresh 
basil, parsley, and thyme
Olive oil (optional)
1. In a large bowl, whisk 
together the ﬂ  our, salt, white 
pepper, and nutmeg. Stir in the eggs, milk, and herbs, mixing until the batter is just com-bined. 
2. Bring a large pot of water 
to a boil. Working with about 
1⁄2  cup of the batter at a time, 
use a rubber spatula to push the batter through a colander with 
 1⁄4-inch holes (or a ﬂ  at 
coarse cheese grater) directly into the boiling water. Stir gently with a slotted spoon, and lift the spaetzle out of the water as they ﬂ  oat to the 
surface, transferring them to a bowl of ice water to cool. Drain. If making the spaetzle in advance, toss with a little oil to prevent sticking.ENTRÉES: POULTRY     143Spring Harvest Pheasant’s Pie 
with Chicken, Pheasant Sausage, Potato, and Ramp Puree
1 1⁄2 hours
Serves  4 to 66 bone-in chicken thighs (about 2 1⁄2 
pounds)
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
5 ramps
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 3 russet potatoes (about 1 
3⁄4 pounds), 
peeled and cut into 1-inch pieces
1  large parsnip, peeled and cut into 1-inch 
pieces
12 tablespoons unsalted butter1  cup heavy cream1  onion, chopped6 shiitake mushrooms, cut into 
1⁄2-inch 
dice
1  spicy pheasant sausage, cut into 1⁄2-inch 
cubes
1  cup chicken stock 2 teaspoons fresh thyme leaves3 scallions, white and green parts, 
chopped
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. 
 2. Season the chicken with salt and pepper and place in a baking dish. Roast for 
40 to 45 minutes, until cooked through. Remove from the oven (leave the oven on). 
When cool enough to handle, pull the meat off the bones. Roughly chop the meat and set aside.  
 3. Meanwhile, bring a medium pot of water to a boil and add the ramps. Cook until just 
tender, about 1 minute, then drain and transfer the ramps to a bowl of ice water to cool. Drain and puree the ramps in a food processor with the oil. Set aside. 
 4. Put potatoes and parsnip in a medium pot and cover with cold water. Add a large 
pinch of salt and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Simmer until tender, about 15 minutes. Drain and return the vegetables to the pot. Place over low heat for 1 minute, shaking the pan so they dry evenly. Pass through a potato ricer into a large bowl. 
 5. In a small saucepan, heat 6 tablespoons of the butter and the cream until the butter 
is melted and the cream is steaming. Beat the cream mixture into the potatoes and parsnips until smooth. Stir in the pureed ramps and season with salt and pepper to taste. Set aside. 
 6. In a medium skillet, melt 4 tablespoons of the butter over medium heat. Add the 
onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until very soft, about 8 minutes, lowering the heat if necessary to keep the onion from browning. Add the mushrooms and sausage and sauté until the mushrooms are just tender, about 3 minutes. Add the stock and chicken and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Simmer for 8 to 10 minutes, until reduced slightly. Stir in the thyme and scallions and season with salt and pep-per to taste. 
 7. Spoon the chicken mixture onto 4 to 6 ovenproof serving dishes (or a 9-by-11-inch baking dish) and spread the potato mixture over the top. Dot with the remaining 2 tablespoons butter. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, until heated through and bubbling. Serve.CHEF: Brian M.
SEASON 3, EPISODE 12
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Turn an onion, a potato, and a chicken into a meal for chefs at the French Culinary Institute.
“Very rich, 
very smoky.”
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE144    ENTRÉES: POULTRY
CHEFS: C.J. and Tre
SEASON 3, EPISODE 6
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Split into pairs to create a frozen pasta meal.Black Trufﬂ  e and Parmesan Linguine 
with Kale, Tomato Conﬁ  t, and Grilled Chicken
Sauce: 
One 3- to 3 1⁄2-pound whole chicken, cut 
into 8 pieces
1  tablespoon olive oil
1  large yellow onion, chopped1  carrot, chopped2 celery ribs, chopped4 ounces mushrooms, sliced3 garlic cloves, choppedHalf 750-ml bottle white wine3 quarts low-sodium chicken stock2 bay leaves3 fresh thyme sprigs1 
1⁄2 teaspoons black peppercorns
1  tablespoon sherry vinegar4 ounces Parmesan cheese, freshly gratedDrizzle of trufﬂ  e oil
4 tablespoons unsalted butterSalt to taste
1⁄2 cup packed fresh basil leaves Pasta: 
4 small tomatoes (about 1⁄2 pound)
1  bunch fresh basil1  whole garlic head, cloves peeledAbout 3 cups plus 5 tablespoons olive oilSalt
12 ounces dried linguine pasta1  bunch Tuscan kale (about 
1⁄2 pound), 
thick stems removed 
8 ounces cremini mushrooms, cut into 
1⁄2-inch slices
Freshly ground black pepper
4 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves 
(1 1⁄4 pounds)
2 tablespoons chopped fresh rosemary2 tablespoons chopped fresh oregano
1⁄2 teaspoon cracked black pepper 
To Se rve: 
1 1⁄2 ounces black trufﬂ  e butter
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Shaved Parmesan cheese 
For the Sauce: 
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
 2. Put the chicken in a large roasting pan and roast for 45 minutes, or until well 
browned. Set aside. 
 3. In a large stockpot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the onion, carrot, and 
celery and cook, stirring, for 5 to 7 minutes, until softened.  
 4. Add the mushrooms and garlic and cook over medium-high heat, stirring, for 5 min-
utes. Add the wine and stir, scraping up any browned bits from the bottom of the pot. 
Bring to a boil and cook for 8 to 10 minutes, until the wine is reduced by about half. 
 5. Add the stock, bay leaves, thyme, and peppercorns. Add the browned chicken, bring 
to a boil over high heat, then lower the heat to maintain a simmer. Simmer for 1 hour, occasionally skimming the foam from the surface of the broth. 
 6. Remove the chicken from the pot and pour the broth through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve set 
over a clean pot; discard the chicken and vegetables or reserve them for another use, and return the broth to high heat. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and sim-mer, skimming the foam occasionally, for about 45 minutes, until reduced by half. More than 3 hours
Serv es 4
WinnerENTRÉES: POULTRY     145
 7. Add the vinegar, then whisk in the cheese, trufﬂ  e oil, butter, and salt. Cook for 5 
minutes, then add the basil and remove from the heat. Let the sauce steep for 2 to 3 
minutes, then pour through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a medium bowl. Set aside. 
For the Pasta: 
 1. To make the tomato conﬁ  t: with a small knife, core the tomatoes. Cut a small X in the 
bottom of each tomato and blanch in a saucepan of boiling water for 1 to 2 minutes. Drain and transfer the tomatoes to a large bowl of ice water to cool. Slip the skins off the tomatoes. 
 2. Put the tomatoes in a medium saucepan, along with the basil and garlic. Pour in 
enough oil to just cover the tomatoes, then bring just to a simmer over low heat. Simmer for 20 to 30 minutes, until the tomatoes are soft but still hold their shape. Using a slotted spoon, remove the tomatoes from the oil and put them in a bowl.  
 3. Pour the oil through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve lined with 3 layers of rinsed and squeezed 
cheesecloth into a medium bowl or jar; set aside.  
 4. When cool enough to handle, cut each tomato into 6 wedges. Set aside. 
 5. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the pasta and cook according to pack-
age directions until almost al dente. Drain, then transfer the pasta to a bowl of ice water to cool. Drain again and toss with a little of the oil from the tomato conﬁ  t to 
prevent sticking. Set aside. 
 6. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the kale and cook for 2 minutes. 
Drain, then transfer the kale to a bowl of ice water to cool. Drain again and cut into wide strips. Set aside. 
 7. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-high heat. Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring frequently, for 4 minutes, or until they give up their moisture. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
 8. Preheat a charcoal grill and set the grate about 8 inches above the coals. 
 9. In a large bowl, toss the chicken breasts together with 3 tablespoons of the olive oil, the rosemary, oregano, 1 teaspoon salt, and the cracked black pepper.  
 10. Lightly brush the grate with oil. When the coals are white, put the chicken on the 
grill and cook for about 2 minutes on each side, depending on the thickness of the 
breasts, until cooked through. Transfer to a cutting board and let rest for 5 minutes. Cut the chicken breasts crosswise into 
1⁄2-inch-wide strips and set aside. 
To Se rve: 
 1. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil from the tomato conﬁ  t over 
medium heat. (Reserve the remaining oil for another use.)
 2. Add the chicken, sauce, kale, and pasta. Bring to a simmer and cook for 3 minutes. 
Add the tomatoes and trufﬂ  e butter and cook for 2 minutes longer. Add salt and pep-
per if necessary. Divide among 4 plates, sprinkle with shaved cheese, and serve.HOW TO:  
Save Some 
for Later
This recipe yields more sauce 
than you’ll need for four servings. (In this case it’s actually easier to make more sauce than you need.) Put the leftover trufﬂ  e-
Parmesan sauce in small plastic 
containers and freeze them for later use; the sauce reheats nicely in a small saucepan over low heat.146    ENTRÉES: POULTRY
CHEF: Hung 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 14
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.
4 bone-in duck breast halves (about 12 
ounces each)
1  tablespoon vegetable oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1  celery rib, cut into 1⁄2-inch dice
1  carrot, peeled and cut into 1⁄2-inch dice
1⁄2 onion, cut into 1⁄2-inch dice
2 stalks lemongrass, bottom parts only, 
crushed and chopped1  kafﬁ  r lime leaf, plus 4 leaves for garnish
12 ounces black trufﬂ  e juice
4 ounces foie gras, cut into 1⁄2-inch dice
1  cup chanterelle mushrooms1  cup lobster mushrooms1  tablespoon minced shallot2 tablespoons minced fresh chives1  tablespoon minced fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley
1  tablespoon balsamic vinegar
 1. Debone and skin the duck breasts. Set the meat aside in the refrigerator.
 2. In a large, heavy pot, heat the oil over high heat and add the duck bones. Season 
lightly with salt and pepper and cook, turning occasionally, until well browned on 
all sides, 6 to 8 minutes. Add the celery, carrot, and onion and cook until slightly softened, then add the lemongrass, lime leaf, and 3 quarts water. Bring to a boil, then skim the foam from the surface. Lower the heat and simmer briskly for about 1 hour, until the liquid is reduced to 1 quart. 
 3. Pour the broth through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a small saucepan and add the trufﬂ  e 
juice. Simmer for about 40 minutes longer, until reduced to 2 cups. Turn the heat to very low to keep the broth warm.
 4. Bring a medium pot of water to about 135°F—hot, but well below a simmer. 
 5. Season the duck breasts with salt and pepper. Arrange them ﬂ  at in a heavy-duty 
zip-top bag and press out as much air as possible, then seal the bag. Lower the bag into the hot water and cook for 20 minutes, checking the water temperature often and adjusting the heat to maintain it at 135°F. Remove the duck breasts from the bag and let rest for 10 minutes on a cutting board, tented loosely with aluminum foil.
 6. Meanwhile, heat a medium sauté pan or skillet over high heat. Add the foie gras 
and cook, stirring gently, until just beginning to color, 2 to 4 minutes. With a slotted spoon, immediately transfer the foie gras to a bowl and set aside. Pour the fat into a cup and set aside. 
 7. Return the pan to medium-high heat and add the mushrooms and shallot. Cook, 
stirring frequently, until softened, about 4 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste and stir in the chives and parsley. Gently fold in the foie gras and vinegar.
 8. Divide the mushroom mixture among 4 deep serving plates. Thinly slice the duck 
breasts and place the slices on top of the mushroom mixture. Using an immersion blender or a whisk, blend the reserved foie gras fat into the warm broth, blending until froth forms on the surface. Spoon some of the broth and froth over each serving and garnish with a fresh lime leaf. Serve immediately.  2 hours
Serv es 4
“I really wanted to 
showcase French 
techniques with a Vietnamese ﬂ  avor proﬁ  le. The Asian ﬂ avor is all the 
herbs I put in—lime leaves, lemon-grass. With the trufﬂ  e and the foie gras, it’s just, ‘Wow .’ ”
HUNGSous-Vide Duck with Trufﬂ  e-Scented Broth  
and Mushroom Ragout ENTRÉES: POULTRY     1472 tablespoons vegetable oil
1  medium yellow onion, thinly slicedOne 2-inch piece ginger, peeled and 
chopped
One 1-inch piece galangal, peeled and 
chopped
6 garlic cloves, chopped4 fresh kafﬁ  r lime leaves, chopped
2 lemongrass stalks, bottom parts only, 
crushed and minced
2 whole dried red chiles2 cups low-sodium chicken stockSalt
1  cup thinly sliced carrots1  cup snow peas, trimmedOne 14-ounce can unsweetened 
coconut milk
1  tablespoon palm sugar2 to 3 teaspoons red curry paste, or to 
taste
Freshly ground white pepper
1 
1⁄2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken 
breast, cut into 1-inch cubes
2 tablespoons minced fresh Thai basil, 
plus basil leaves for garnish
2 tablespoons minced fresh cilantroSteamed jasmine rice for serving
 1. In a large pot, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion, ginger, galangal, garlic, 
lime leaves, lemongrass, and chiles and sauté until the vegetables have softened, 
about 5 minutes. Add the stock, bring to a simmer, and cook until reduced by three- quarters, about 15 minutes.
 2. While the stock is reducing, ﬁ  ll a large bowl with ice water. Bring a large pot of salted 
water to a boil, add the carrots and blanch for 1 minute, then add the snow peas and blanch 1 minute more, then drain and transfer to the ice-water bath. Drain and set 
aside on paper towels.
 3. Add the coconut milk, palm sugar, and curry paste to the stock and cook, stirring to 
dissolve the curry paste and sugar, until reduced by half, about 10 minutes. Strain the mixture through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a clean pot, discarding the solids. Season 
with salt and white pepper to taste.
 4. Place the pot over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Add the chicken pieces and 
cook until the chicken is just cooked through, about 5 minutes. Add the snow peas and carrots and cook for about 2 minutes to warm through. Add the basil and cilan-tro and adjust the seasonings, adding more salt and pepper as needed. 
 5. Serve with steamed jasmine rice and garnish with the basil leaves. Serve immediately.Chicken in Red Curry Sauce
CHEF: Lee Anne
SEASON 1, EPISODE 4
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a gourmet entrée that can be reheated in the microwave.
1 hour
Serves  4
WHAT IS . . .  
Curry?
The word curry  (probably from 
the South Indian word khari , 
“sauce”) most commonly refers 
to hot dry- or wet-sauced dishes of Indian, Pakistani, or Bangladeshi origin that contain a mixture of spices such as cumin, coriander, and turmeric (which is what gives standard curry powder—developed by the British—its characteristic yellow color). Other spices that could be included depending on the region and the individual cook are yel-low and black mustard seeds, cardamom, fenugreek, ground ginger, ground cinnamon, ground cloves, nutmeg, mace, black pepper, dried chiles, poppy seeds, and curry leaves.CHEFS: Casey and Dale 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 6
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Split into pairs to create a frozen pasta meal.Turkey and Pork Meatballs  
with Orecchiette Pasta and Spinach-Almond Pesto
Turkey and Pork Meatballs:
1⁄2 pound ground turkey
1⁄2 pound ground pork
1  garlic clove, minced
1⁄4 cup grated Parmesan cheese 
1  tablespoon all-purpose ﬂ  our
1  tablespoon minced onion
1  tablespoon minced fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley
1  tablespoon minced fresh oregano1  teaspoon lemon zest2 tablespoons white wine1  large egg, beaten lightly
1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper chile ﬂ  akes
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons olive oil, plus more as 
neededVegetables and Pasta:
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil4 cups cauliﬂ  ower ﬂ  orets
1  cup baby carrotsOne 14-ounce can artichoke hearts, 
each cut in half
1  packed cup fresh spinach leaves1  tablespoon white wineSalt and freshly ground black pepper
1  pound orecchiette pasta, cooked al 
dente
Spinach-Almond Pesto (see right)
For the Turkey and Pork Meatballs:
 1. In a large bowl, stir together all the meatball ingredients except the oil and form 
into meatballs about 3⁄4 inch in diameter. 
 2. In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons oil over medium-high heat until hot but not 
smoking and cook the meatballs, in batches, turning them as they cook, until 
browned and cooked through, about 5 minutes. Add more oil to the skillet with new batches as necessary. With a slotted spoon, transfer to a wire rack to drain. Set aside.
For the Vegetables and Pasta:
 1. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the cauliﬂ  ower, 
carrots, and artichokes and sauté until softened but al dente, about 5 minutes. 
 2. Add the spinach and cook for 1 minute, or until just wilted. Add the wine and cook 
until evaporated. Season lightly with salt and pepper. 
 3. Add the orecchiette and meatballs to the vegetables and stir to combine. Add 
enough pesto to coat, then heat to warm through. Taste and add salt and pepper if necessary. Serve immediately.2 hours
Serves  6
ON THE SIDE: 
Spinach-
Almond Pesto
10 garlic cloves, peeled and 
left whole, plus 2 garlic 
cloves, minced
1⁄2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more as needed
1⁄2 cup sliced almonds, 
toasted
4 ounces fresh spinach 
leaves, plus more as 
needed
1⁄2 cup grated Parmesan 
cheese, plus more as needed
3 tablespoons fresh lemon 
juice, plus more as needed
2 tablespoons white wine
Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
1.  In a medium saucepan, bring the whole garlic and oil to a bare simmer over low heat and poach until softened and lightly golden, about 15 minutes. Remove from the heat and cool.
2.  Combine the cooked garlic 
along with its cooking oil in a food processor. Add the minced raw garlic, the almonds, spinach, cheese, lemon juice, wine, and salt and pepper to taste and puree. Taste and adjust the seasonings as needed. Set aside until you’re ready to assemble the dish.
ENTRÉES: POULTRY     149150    ENTRÉES: POULTRY
CHEF: T re
SEASON 3, EPISODE 1ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a surf-and-turf dish using exotic proteins.Seared Ostrich Fillet  
with Heirloom Tomato Risotto and Abalone Sauce
TIMESAVER !
The ostrich should be cooked 
at the last minute, but the spice rub can be made well in advance. Start the risotto about 50 min-utes before you plan to serve the dish, and ﬁ  nish it as the ostrich 
cooks and rests.Abalone Reduction:5 tablespoons unsalted butter6 abalone ﬁ  llets, diced
2 leeks, white and light green parts only, 
washed and chopped
2 ribs celery, chopped1  bay leaf2 cups white wine
1⁄2 cup heavy cream
3 sprigs fresh thyme3 sprigs fresh tarragon3 sprigs fresh basilJuice of 
1⁄2 lemon 
Salt 
Risotto:
4 tablespoons unsalted butter1  cup Arborio rice
1⁄2 cup white wine
About 4 1⁄2 cups low-sodium chicken stock
1⁄2 cup heavy cream
1⁄4 cup freshly grated Parmesan cheese
2 large heirloom tomatoes, peeled and 
diced
1  bunch asparagus (1 pound), tips only1  leek, white and light green parts only, 
washed and diced
1  tablespoon chopped fresh basil 1  tablespoon chopped fresh tarragon1  teaspoon cracked black pepperSaltOstrich:2 tablespoons fennel seeds2 tablespoons whole coriander 2 tablespoons black peppercorns1  tablespoon juniper berries4 dried chiles de arbol, stemmedFour 4-ounce ostrich ﬁ  llets
4 tablespoons olive oilSalt
Salad:
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil1  tablespoon champagne vinegar1  tablespoon honeySalt 
2 cups chicory hearts20 fresh chives1  tablespoon fresh chervil leaves
To Se rve:
6 abalone ﬁ  llets, diced
1  tablespoon minced radish
1  tablespoon minced fresh chives3 hoursServ es 4
Winner
For the Abalone Reduction:
 1. In a large pot, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter over medium-high heat. Add the 
abalone and sauté for 1 minute. Add the leeks, celery, and bay leaf and sauté for 3 
minutes. Add the wine, bring to a boil, and cook until reduced by half.
 2. Add 3 quarts water and bring to a boil. Lower the heat to maintain a brisk simmer 
and cook for 1 1⁄2 hours. 
 3. Pour through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a medium saucepan and cook over medium-high 
heat until reduced to 1⁄2 cup, 25 to 30 minutes.  4. Add the cream, bring to a boil, and cook until thickened slightly. Whisk in the re-
maining 3 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon at a time. Remove from the heat and add 
the thyme, tarragon, and basil. Set aside to steep for 3 minutes, then strain into a 
small saucepan and add the lemon juice and salt to taste. Set aside.
For the Risotto:
 1. In a large sauté pan with straight sides, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter over 
medium heat. Add the rice and sauté for 2 to 3 minutes, until just starting to turn golden. 
 2. Add the wine and bring to a boil. Cook, stirring constantly, until the wine is almost 
completely absorbed and evaporated. Add 
1⁄2 cup of the stock and cook, stirring, un-
til it is almost completely absorbed. Keep adding stock, 1⁄2 cup at a time, waiting until 
each addition is absorbed before adding the next and stirring constantly. When the rice is creamy and almost al dente, after about 40 minutes total, add the cream and cheese and cook for 1 minute. Gently fold in the tomatoes, asparagus, leek, basil, tar-ragon, cracked pepper, and salt to taste. If the risotto is too thick, add a little more stock. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until the asparagus is just tender, making sure not to break up the tomatoes. Stir in the remaining 2 tablespoons butter. 
For the Ostrich:
 1. In a small sauté pan or skillet, combine the fennel, coriander, peppercorns, juniper 
berries, and chiles. Toast over medium heat until fragrant and just starting to brown, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a spice mill and grind until ﬁ  ne. 
 2. Coat the ostrich ﬁ  llets with 2 tablespoons of the oil and pat the spice mixture all over 
the ﬁ  llets. Sprinkle with salt.
 3. In a large sauté pan or skillet (or 2 medium pans), heat the remaining 2 tablespoons 
oil over high heat. Add the ostrich ﬁ  llets and cook for about 4 minutes on each side, 
until medium-rare. Transfer to a cutting board and tent with aluminum foil. Set aside to rest while you make the salad. 
For the Salad:
 1. In a small bowl, whisk together the oil, vinegar, honey, and salt to taste. 
 2. In a medium bowl, toss the chicory, chives, and chervil together. Drizzle a bit of the 
dressing over the salad and toss to coat. 
To Se rve:
 1. Rewarm the abalone reduction and add the raw abalone, radish, and chives. Remove 
from the heat and put the lid on the pan to keep warm.
 2. Cut the ostrich ﬁ  llets across the grain into thin slices.
 3. Divide the risotto among 4 serving plates. Place the ostrich slices on top of the 
risotto and spoon the abalone sauce around the plate. Pile the salad on top of the ostrich and serve immediately.“Tre’s dish had a 
really mature use of 
ﬂ avor. It was not a 
classical combina-tion of ingredients by any means, but it tasted very classical. It was perfectly executed, and it looked good.”
CHEF AND AUTHOR ANTHONY BOURDAIN, GUEST JUDGE
ENTRÉES: POULTRY     151152    ENTRÉES: POULTRY
CHEFS: Brian M. and Sara N.
SEASON 3, EPISODE 6
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Split into pairs to create a frozen pasta meal.Chicken Rigatoni 
with Bell Peppers, Kalamata Olives, and Sun-Dried Tomatoes
Salt
8 ounces rigatoni pasta
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus 
more for the pasta
1  ounce pancetta, coarsely chopped
1⁄2 medium yellow onion, cut into thin rings
1⁄2 red or yellow bell pepper, cored, seeded, 
and cut into thin strips
1  shallot, ﬁ  nely chopped
4 sun-dried tomatoes packed in oil, 
chopped
1  garlic clove, minced1⁄4 cup white wine
1  tablespoon unsalted butter6 ounces boneless, skinless chicken 
breast, cut into 1-inch strips
Freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 cup pitted and chopped kalamata olives
1⁄3 cup ground Parmesan cheese 
1⁄4 cup pine nuts, toasted
1  tablespoon ﬁ  nely chopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf 
parsley
2 teaspoons ﬁ  nely chopped fresh 
rosemary
 1. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the pasta and cook according to 
package directions until al dente. Drain, and toss with a little oil to prevent sticking. 
Set aside.
 2. Heat a medium sauté pan or skillet over medium heat. Add the pancetta and sauté 
until crisp, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer with a slotted spoon to paper towels to drain.
 3. Add the 2 tablespoons oil to the fat in the pan, then add the onion, pepper, shallot, 
and sun-dried tomatoes and sauté until the onion and pepper are softened, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté for 1 minute, or until softened. Add the wine, raise the heat, and stir until evaporated.  
 4. In a small skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Season the chicken with salt 
and pepper and sauté until cooked through and lightly browned on both sides, 5 to 7 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon and add to the onion-pepper mixture. 
 5. Add the pasta, olives, and pancetta to the onion-pepper mixture and heat to warm 
through. Just before serving, stir in the cheese, pine nuts, parsley, and rosemary, and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper if needed. Serve immediately.45 minutes
Serv es 2
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE    “IT WAS REALLY WELL SEASONED AND IT HELD UP WELL. THIS WAS A GOOD DISH.”ENTRÉES: POULTRY     153
CHEF: Hung 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 1
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a surf-and-turf dish using exotic proteins.Poached Black Chicken and Raw Geoduck 
with Fennel
WHAT ARE . . . 
Black Chicken 
and Geoduck?
Black chicken, with its white 
feathers and black meat and bones, is known for its medicinal properties in Chinese cuisine and requires a longer cooking time than a standard chicken. You’ll ﬁ nd it at Asian markets. 
Geoduck (pronounced “GOOEY-duk”) is a giant clam with a long siphon extending out of its shell—perhaps daunting to look at but also favored in Asian cuisine. You’ll ﬁ  nd it in Asian 
markets as well. Since the size varies greatly, you may need to 
adjust the amounts used in the marinade to accommodate.Black Chicken:About 3 quarts low-sodium chicken stock1  yellow onion, peeled and quartered2 carrots, roughly chopped2 celery ribs, roughly chopped6 garlic cloves, peeled1  large bunch fresh thymeOne 3- to 3 
1⁄2-pound black chicken
1  teaspoon black trufﬂ  e oil, or to taste
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Raw Geoduck with Fennel:
1  geoduck1⁄2 cup shaved fennel, plus fennel fronds 
for garnish
2 radishes, thinly sliced3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus 
more as needed
5 tablespoons fresh lemon juice, plus 
more as needed
2 teaspoons grated lemon zestSalt and freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 cup diced shiitake mushrooms
2 scallions, diced1  tablespoon minced fresh ginger1  teaspoon sherry vinegar1  teaspoon sugar
For the Black Chicken:
 1. In a large pot, boil enough chicken stock to cover the chicken. Add the onion, car-
rots, celery, garlic, and thyme. Add the chicken and bring to a simmer. Reduce the 
heat and simmer until the chicken is cooked through, 1 to 1 1⁄2 hours.
 2. Remove the chicken from the pot and strain the stock. Return 4 cups of the stock 
to the pot and reserve the remaining stock for another use. Place over medium-high heat and cook until reduced by about half.  Add the trufﬂ  e oil and season with salt 
and pepper if needed. Cut the chicken into serving pieces and set aside.
For the Raw Geoduck with Fennel:
 1. Clean the geoduck: blanch, shell and all, for 10 seconds in a pot of boiling water. 
Drain and cool slightly. Carve the clam away from the shell. Separate the innards from the siphon (the clam’s ﬂ  eshy tube). Peel the skin off the siphon and cut the 
siphon in half lengthwise. Clean any sand from the inner tube. Thinly slice the siphon and reserve the innards.
 2. In a large bowl, combine the siphon with the fennel and radishes. Toss with 2 table-
spoons of the oil, 4 tablespoons of the lemon juice, and the lemon zest. Season with salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste.
 3. Chop the geoduck innards to a paste. In a medium skillet, heat the remaining 1 table-
spoon oil over medium heat. Add the mushrooms and sauté for 3 minutes, or until softened. Add the scallions and ginger and sauté until softened, about 2 minutes. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon lemon juice, the vinegar, sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Add the geoduck innards and cook for 1 minute.
To Se rve:
  Place the chicken on serving plates and top with the sauce. Place the geoduck slices on separate plates and top with the sauce from the innards. Garnish with the fennel fronds and serve immediately.2 hours
Serves  4ENTRÉES: POULTRY     155CHEF: Elia
SEASON 2, EPISODE 9
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a seven-course meal inspired by the seven deadly sins.Roasted Chicken with Vegetables 
 
One 7-pound organic roasting chicken, 
rinsed and patted dry 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, 
plus 1⁄2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, 
melted
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
3 medium carrots, cut into chunks on the 
diagonal
2 zucchini, thickly sliced8 ounces button mushrooms, stemmed  
and halved
1  pound ﬁ  ngerling potatoes, halved
1⁄2 cup low-sodium chicken stock
4 fresh rosemary sprigs, plus more for 
garnish
8 fresh thyme sprigs, plus more for garnish 
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
 2. Brush the chicken with the softened butter. Sprinkle generously with salt and pep-
per. Tie the legs loosely together.
 3. In a large bowl, combine the carrots, zucchini, mushrooms, and potatoes. Add the 
melted butter and toss to coat. Add salt and pepper to taste.  
 4. Put the chicken in a roasting pan and scatter the vegetables around the chicken. 
Pour in the stock and top with the herb sprigs.
 5. Roast the chicken for 1 1⁄2 to 2 hours, turning the vegetables a few times to evenly 
brown, until the chicken is golden brown and an instant-read thermometer inserted 
into the thickest part of the thigh reads 180°F.
 6. Remove the chicken from the roasting pan and cut it into serving pieces. Place 
on plates and, using a slotted spoon, remove the vegetables from the pan and place them alongside the chicken. Garnish with fresh thyme and rosemary sprigs. Serve immediately.2 hours
Serves  8
TED ALLEN, GUEST JUDGE    “I’M SPENDING MOST OF MY COOKING LIFE TRYING TO PERFECT ROAST CHICKEN. 
I APPRECIATED THE RUSTIC HOMINESS OF IT. SPECTACULAR. IT HAD SOUL.”WHAT ARE . . . 
Other Ways to 
Roast a Chicken?
Elia’s recipe for roasted chicken 
is classic: medium oven tempera-ture, longish roasting time, and plenty of butter. Many people swear by a high-heat method popularized by Barbara Kafka: the whole bird is seasoned simply and stuffed with aromatics, then roasted at a blistering 500°F for less than an hour. (If you haven’t cleaned your oven lately, do it before you roast to avoid a very smoky kitchen.) Still others prefer to 
spatchcock  the chicken 
to reduce roasting time: cut out the backbone, open the chicken out like a book, breast side up, and ﬂ  atten it with your palm. Lay 
it over sliced lemons and roast at 450˚F for about 45 minutes.“I am always suspicious of a chef 
who is too well groomed,” says Anthony Bourdain. “It’s like, ‘Are you here to cook or to show us your hair?’ ” Presumably he has to suspend that 
judgment while watching (and guest judging) 
Top Chef .
It’s often been said that chefs are the new rock stars, 
and Top Chef ’s contestants have done their best to look 
the part. It’s been the male chefs who have sported the most memorable coifs—from Stephen’s spiky look to Marcel’s art deco torch of hair to Dale’s mohawk (which handily defeated Sandee’s mohawk in the Mohawk-Off). Here we present some of our favorite looks. 
GHI
MND
156   TOP COIFTop Coif
≠ BETTY 
≠ CASEY 
≠ CLIFF
≠ DALE 
≠ DAVE ≠ ELIA 
≠ HOWIE
≠ ILAN  
≠ MARCEL  
≠ MICHAEL  ≠ MIGUEL  
≠ OTTO  
≠ SAM  
≠ SANDEE  ≠ STEPHEN  
≠ TIFFANI  
≠ TOM  
≠ TRE ANSWERS: A. Tiffani; B. Marcel; C. Dale; D. Michael; E. Tom, Howie, Tre, Cliff, Elia, Ilan; F. Stephen; G. Sandee; H. Otto;
 I. Sam; J. Miguel; K. Dave; L. Elia; M. Casey; N. Betty; O. MarcelJKLEFABC
O
TOP COIF    157
Entrées: Fish
164163160
Harold’s Steamed Red Snapper  
with Roasted Butternut Squash Puree
Ilan’s Macadamia Nut Gazpacho  
with Pan-Roasted Moi
Sara M.’s Halibut with Grapes and  
Fried Leeks 
Ilan’s Fideos with Clams and SaffronC.J.’s Scallop Mousse and Shrimp Burger  
with Tangerine
Sam’s Espresso Shrimp Flambéed  
with Sambuca 
with Roasted Hazelnut and Peanut Paste
Michael’s Trout and Salmon  
with Lemon-Thyme Cream Sauce and Basil Oil160 
162 
163 
164
166 
167 
 
168 Entrées: Fish
178175168
Hosea’s Seared Scallops and Foie Gras  
with Pain Perdu and Apples
Brian’s Sea Bass, Scallop, and  
Shrimp Sausage  
with Jicama Slaw, Sweet Chili Glaze, and Asian Chimichurri
Harold’s Ecuadorian Ceviche  
with Popcorn Cakes
Betty’s Spicy Coconut Curry  Steamed Mussels  
with Mango Couscous
Tiffani’s Red Wine–Braised Angel  Hair Pasta 
with Cold Octopus and Tomato Succo with Octopus Frit 
Tiffani’s Mirin-Glazed Sea Bass170 
172 
 
175 
176 
 
177 
 
178CHEF: Harold
SEASON 1, EPISODE 1ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a signature dish to be served to the other contestants.Steamed Red Snapper  
with Roasted Butternut Squash Puree
Roasted Butternut Squash Puree:
1⁄2 large butternut squash, peeled, seeded, 
and cut into 1-inch cubes
1  tablespoon olive oil, plus more for the 
pan
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1  shallot, ﬁ  nely chopped
1  garlic clove, ﬁ  nely chopped
1  cup low-sodium chicken stock, plus 
more if neededVegetables:
1  tablespoon unsalted butter6 rock shrimp, peeled and deveined3 ounces chanterelle mushrooms, chopped 
(about 
1⁄2 cup)
3⁄4 cup Brussels sprouts leaves
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Red Snapper:
Two 6- to 8-ounce red snapper ﬁ  llets with 
skin
1  teaspoon minced fresh chives1  teaspoon minced fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley
For the Roasted Butternut Squash Puree:
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F and grease a medium baking pan.
 2. Put the squash in a medium bowl, add the oil, and toss to coat. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper and toss. Place the squash in the baking pan in one layer and bake until 
browned and tender when pierced with a fork, stirring occasionally, about 45 min-utes. Remove from the oven and place back in the bowl.
 3. In a large sauté pan or skillet, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter over medium heat. Add 
the shallot and sauté until softened, about 3 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté until softened, about 1 minute more. Add the squash and stock, bring to a simmer, cover, reduce the heat to low, and cook for 10 minutes to blend the ﬂ  avors.
 4. Transfer the mixture to a food processor, add the remaining 1 tablespoon butter, and 
puree, adding more stock if necessary. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
For the Vegetables:
  In a medium sauté pan or skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the shrimp, mushrooms, and Brussels sprouts leaves and cook until the shrimp are just opaque and the vegetables are softened, about 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Remove from the heat.
For the Red Snapper:
  Pour enough water into a large pot with a steamer insert to come about 1 inch up the 
sides. Position a steamer rack or basket in the pot and top with a 9-inch pie plate. Bring the water to a boil and place the snapper on the pie plate. Cover the pot and steam the snapper until opaque in the center, about 5 minutes.
To Se rve:
  Reheat the vegetables and squash puree if necessary. Spread the squash puree over 
serving plates, top with the ﬁ  sh, and scatter the vegetables over the ﬁ  sh. Garnish 
with the chives and parsley and serve immediately.1 1⁄2 hours
Serv es 2
Winner
 “A real restaurant 
dish. The ﬂ  avors 
were spot on. This was altogether extraordinary.”
TOM COLICCHIO, 
HEAD JUDGE
160    ENTRÉES: FISHCHEF: Ilan
SEASON 2, EPISODE 13
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.Macadamia Nut Gazpacho  
with Pan-Roasted Moi
6 garlic cloves
5 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil1  cup macadamia nuts5 slices bread, cubed1  tablespoon champagne vinegar
1⁄3 English cucumberSalt and freshly ground black pepper 
8 ounces moi or sea bass ﬁ  llet with skin, 
cut into 4 portions
Grated zest of  1⁄4 Buddha’s hand citron
Smoked Spanish paprika for garnish
 1. Thinly slice 4 of the garlic cloves. In a small sauté pan or skillet, heat 1 tablespoon 
oil over medium heat. Add the sliced garlic and sauté until browned and crisp, about 
3 minutes; be sure the garlic does not burn. Transfer the garlic to paper towels to drain, and set aside.
 2. Chop about 
1⁄4 cup of the macadamia nuts and toast them in a dry skillet over 
medium heat until browned in spots, about 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the heat and set aside.
 3. In a blender, combine the remaining 2 garlic cloves and 
3⁄4  cup macadamia nuts, the 
bread, vinegar, 2 tablespoons oil, and 3⁄4 cup water. Blend, starting at a low speed 
and increasing the speed to high as the mixture is pureed, adding more water a little at a time and scraping down the sides of the blender frequently, until very smooth. The gazpacho should be the consistency of a thick cream soup. Put in the refrigera-tor until ready to serve.
 4. Peel the cucumber and cut it into 
1⁄8-inch-thick strips, then cut into 1⁄8-inch cubes. 
Put in a small bowl and toss with a drizzle of oil and salt and pepper to taste. Divide the cucumber among 4 soup plates and set aside.
 5. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons oil over high 
heat. Season the ﬁ  sh with salt and pepper. Put the ﬁ  sh in the pan skin side down 
and cook without turning, carefully spooning hot oil from the pan over the top of the ﬁ sh as it cooks, for about 4 minutes, until well browned and crisp on the bottom and 
just cooked through. Using a thin metal spatula, lift the ﬁ  sh from the pan and place 
1 piece in each soup plate on top of the cucumber, browned side up.
 6. Ladle gazpacho around the ﬁ  sh and cucumber, then garnish each serving with 
the fried garlic, toasted nuts, citron zest, and a pinch of smoked paprika. Serve immediately.
CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR SCOTT CONANT, GUEST JUDGE    “THIS IS EXACTLY WHAT I LOOK FOR IN A YOUNG CHEF. 
HE GETS IT.”25 minutes
Serv es 4
162    ENTRÉES: FISHWHAT IS . . . 
Moi?
Moi (pronounced “MOY”), a delicate, oily, white-ﬂ  eshed 
ﬁ sh native to tropical areas of 
the Paciﬁ  c, was supposedly so 
highly prized by Hawaiians that a whole industry was devoted to raising the ﬁ  sh in coastal farms 
(rock walls jutting out into the ocean, with strategically placed gates made of sticks), with fast 
runners at the ready to carry ﬁ  sh 
to be cooked fresh for members of the royal family. Wild-caught moi is rare, usually eaten by those who catch it, but moi is now being farmed in deep-sea cages in Hawaii and is becoming more common in mainland ﬁ  sh 
markets. Chefs compare moi, also known as Paciﬁ  c threadﬁ  n, 
to pompano, sea bass, and barramundi.CHEF: Sara M. 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 9ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: R eopen your restaurant from the previous episode.Halibut with Grapes and Fried Leeks
 
5 ounces slab bacon, diced
4 leeks, white parts only3 cups plus 3 tablespoons vegetable oil5 shallots, slicedSalt 
One 375-ml bottle Sauternes wineHalf 750-ml bottle white wine such as 
Chardonnay1⁄2 bag seedless red grapes (about 
12 ounces)
4 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut 
into pieces
Six 6-ounce pieces halibut ﬁ  llet with skin
Freshly ground black pepper
About 2 ounces arugula, washed, dried, 
and cut into chiffonade
 1. In a heavy skillet over medium heat, cook the bacon for about 15 minutes, until crisp. 
Using a slotted spoon, transfer to paper towels to drain. Strain the bacon fat through 
a ﬁ ne-mesh sieve and set aside.
 2. Meanwhile, cut the leeks in half lengthwise and cut into thin julienne strips. Wash 
well in cold water, drain, and thoroughly pat dry with paper towels.
 3. In a large, heavy pot, heat 3 cups of the oil to 375°F. Carefully add a small handful 
of the leeks and fry for 30 to 45 seconds, until golden brown. Using a slotted spoon, remove the leeks from the oil, transfer to paper towels to drain, and set aside. Re-peat with the remaining leeks.
 4. Preheat the oven to 450°F.
 5. Heat 1 tablespoon of the remaining oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high 
heat. Add the shallots, season lightly with salt, and cook for about 5 minutes, stirring frequently, until browned and soft. Add the wines, scraping up the browned bits from the bottom of the pan. Set aside 12 grapes and add the remaining grapes to the pan. Raise the heat to high and bring to a boil; cook for about 20 minutes, until the sauce is reduced by half. Working in two batches, transfer the sauce to a blender and puree until smooth. Strain all the pureed sauce through a chinois or a ﬁ  ne-mesh 
sieve set over a clean saucepan. Bring to a boil over high heat and cook for about 12 minutes, until reduced to 1 
1⁄2 cups. Whisk in the bacon fat, then whisk in the butter 
one piece at a time. Remove from the heat and cover to keep warm.
 6. In a large ovenproof sauté pan or skillet, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons oil over 
high heat until hot. Season the ﬁ  sh on both sides with salt and pepper, then put the 
ﬁ sh in the pan, skin side down, and cook without turning for 1 1⁄2 to 2 minutes, until 
well browned on the bottom. Using a thin metal spatula, turn the ﬁ  sh over and cook 
for 30 seconds, then transfer the pan to the oven and roast for 2 minutes, until the ﬁ sh is just cooked through and ﬂ  akes easily when prodded with a fork.
 7. Cut the reserved grapes in half. In a large bowl, toss the grapes, arugula, bacon, and leeks together. Season the salad with salt and pepper to taste. 
 8. Spoon some of the sauce onto each of 6 serving plates and place the ﬁ  sh on top of 
the sauce. Top with the salad and serve immediately.1 hour, 15 minutes
Serves  6
Winner
“I like this recipe 
because it’s 
really light and yet really ﬂ  avor-ful. And it’s easy to make, too. The grape sauce is very classically French, but it’s 
usually used with chicken.”
SARA M. 
ENTRÉES: FISH     163CHEF: Ilan
SEASON 2, EPISODE 11
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a romantic ﬁ  ve-course menu.Fideos with Clams and Saffron 
 
1  pound ﬁ  deos or capellini pasta 
2 cups heavy cream
1  teaspoon saffron threads, crumbled Salt
1  cup small cauliﬂ  ower ﬂ  orets
1  cup small broccoli ﬂ  orets1⁄3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
10 garlic cloves, peeled and left whole
1⁄2 cup white wine or seafood stock
1  pound fresh medium clams, cleanedFreshly ground black pepper
Chopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley for garnish
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
 2. Break the ﬁ  deos into 3-inch pieces. Arrange the pieces in an even layer on a rimmed 
baking sheet. Place in the oven and bake until golden brown, 8 to 10 minutes. Re-
move from the oven and set aside to cool.
 3. In a medium saucepan, combine the cream, saffron, and salt to taste and place 
over medium heat. Bring just to a boil, whisking and watching the pot so the cream doesn’t boil over. Remove from the heat, stir in the cauliﬂ  ower and broccoli, and set 
aside.
 4. Preheat the broiler.
 5. In a large saucepan, heat the oil and garlic over low heat, stirring, until the garlic 
begins to soften and turn golden, about 15 minutes. Break the garlic up with the back of a wooden spoon, then add the wine, clams, and ﬁ  deos. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste and stir to combine.
 6.  Increase the heat to medium-high and cover the pan. Cook for about 4 minutes, 
shaking the pan, until the clams have opened. Discard any unopened clams. Stir in the cauliﬂ  ower and cream mixture and remove from the heat.
 7.  Divide the clam and pasta mixture among 4 ovenproof dishes. Place the dishes in 
the oven and broil until golden brown, 2 to 4 minutes.
 8. Garnish with the chopped parsley and serve immediately.45 minutes
Serv es 4
“This is a very 
traditional dish 
inspired by some-thing I used to cook at the res-taurant where 
I worked. I think it’s one of the most delicious things on Earth.”
ILAN
CHEF ERIC RIPERT, GUEST JUDGE    “THIS WAS REALLY PERFECTION. AT FIRST I THOUGHT IT WAS TOO MUCH FOOD 
BUT THEN WE ENDED UP FINISHING IT AND PADMA EVEN WANTED MORE.”
164    ENTRÉES: FISHCHEF: C.J.
SEASON 3, EPISODE 8QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: P repare a burger for Red Robin’s line of “Adventuresome Burgers.”Scallop Mousse and Shrimp Burger 
with Tangerine
Scallop Mousse and Shrimp Burger:
4 bay scallops
1  teaspoon minced serrano chile2 teaspoons minced scallion1  tablespoon fresh lime juiceSalt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons canola oil12 large shrimp, peeled, deveined, and cut 
in half lengthwise
Sauce:
1⁄4 cup pickled ginger
3 tablespoons pickled ginger juice (from 
the pickled ginger jar)2 tablespoons fresh lime juice2 tablespoons rice vinegar1  tablespoon canola oil
1⁄2 cup chopped fresh cilantro
2 scallions, roughly choppedSalt and freshly ground black pepper 
to taste
To Se rve:
2 crosswise slices honey tangerine2 brioche buns2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro 
1⁄4 cup thinly sliced radicchio
1⁄4 cup thinly sliced spinach leaves
For the Scallop Mousse and Shrimp Burgers:
 1. Place the scallops, chile, scallion, lime juice, and salt and pepper to taste in a food 
processor and pulse to combine, scraping the sides once or twice. With the motor 
running, pour in 1 tablespoon of the oil through the hole in the lid to emulsify the mixture.
 2. Line two 3-inch aspic molds with enough plastic wrap to generously cover the bur-
gers. Arrange 12 shrimp halves in a circular formation in the bottom of the molds. Add the scallop mousse and press down. Top with the remaining shrimp and press down again. Wrap the plastic tightly over the burgers and twist over the top to enclose and seal the burgers. Refrigerate for 1 hour to ﬁ  rm up.
 3. In a large skillet, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil over medium-high heat. Unwrap 
the burgers and place them in the skillet; cook until cooked through and lightly browned on both sides, about 5 minutes total. Remove from the skillet and transfer to paper towels to drain.
For the Sauce:
  While the burgers are chilling, combine all the sauce ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. Pour into a bowl and set aside.
To Se rve:
  Place a honey tangerine slice on each bottom bun. Place the burgers on top, drizzle with the sauce, and sprinkle with the cilantro, radicchio, and spinach. Top with the top bun and serve immediately.11⁄2 minutes
Serv es 2
Winner
166     ENTRÉES: FISHWHAT ARE . . . 
Shrimp Burgers?
The burger, that great American 
icon, is always associated with ground beef, but the potential of a grilled or fried patty on a bun extends far beyond Wimpy Burger and White Castle. The shrimp burger is an old tradi-tion from the shrimping towns of South Carolina’s Lowcountry and 
holds together best when fresh shrimp is used.CHEF: Sam 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 1QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a ﬂ  ambé dish in a limited amount of time.Espresso Shrimp Flambéed with Sambuca
with Roasted Hazelnut and Peanut Paste
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1⁄4 cup unsalted peanuts
1⁄4 cup blanched hazelnuts
1 1⁄2 teaspoons sugar
1  scallion, cut into julienne strips
1⁄2 red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and cut 
into julienne strips
1  teaspoon olive oil1  teaspoon fresh lemon juice
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1  teaspoon sriracha hot sauce2 garlic cloves, minced12 large shrimp, peeled and deveined2 teaspoons ﬁ  nely ground espresso beans
6 tablespoons Sambuca
 1. In a small sauté pan or skillet, melt 1 tablespoon of the butter over medium heat. Add 
the peanuts and hazelnuts and cook, stirring constantly, until lightly browned, 3 to 5 
minutes. Transfer to a blender or food processor and add the sugar and 1 tablespoon water. Blend until ﬁ  nely pureed, adding more water if necessary to make a paste. 
 2. Spoon or brush a small amount of the paste onto each of 4 serving plates.
 3. In a small bowl, toss the scallion and red pepper with the oil and lemon juice and 
season with salt and pepper to taste. Place a small pile of the mixture on each serving plate. 
 4. Garnish the plates with sriracha sauce and set aside. 
 5. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, melt the remaining 2 tablespoons butter over 
medium heat. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until light brown. Add the shrimp and ground espresso beans and cook over medium-high heat, turning the shrimp constantly to coat them with the espresso, for 30 seconds. Add the Sambuca and carefully ignite it, then cook until the sauce coats the shrimp and becomes syrupy, 1 to 2 minutes.
 6. Put 3 shrimp on each plate and serve immediately.20 minutes
Serves  4
Winner
CHEF AND SEASON 1 WINNER HAROLD DIETERLE, GUEST JUDGE   “THIS DISH WAS OUT OF CONTROL. THE FLAVOR 
PROFILES WERE RIGHT ON.”
 ENTRÉES: FISH     167CHEF: Michael
SEASON 2, EPISODE 9
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a seven-course meal inspired by the seven deadly sins.Trout and Salmon 
with Lemon-Thyme Cream Sauce and Basil Oil
Trout and Salmon:
2 plum tomatoes, cut into 4 wedges each
4 fresh basil leaves3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oilSalt and freshly ground black pepper
4 thin asparagus spears, peeled and cut 
into 2-inch lengths
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
1⁄2 cup heavy cream
2 fresh thyme sprigs1  teaspoon fresh lemon juice, or to tasteOne 4-ounce trout ﬁ  llet, skin removed
One 8-ounce salmon ﬁ  llet, skin removed
1  medium portobello mushroom cap, 
chopped
4 button mushrooms, stemmed and 
chopped
4 shiitake mushrooms, stemmed and 
chopped
Basil Oil:
1⁄4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 cup packed fresh basil leaves
For the Trout and Salmon:
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. Place the tomato wedges in a small baking dish and top 
with the basil. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the oil and sprinkle with salt and pep-
per. Place in the oven and roast, turning once or twice, until softened and lightly browned, about 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and set aside.
 2. Bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil. Add salt and the asparagus. Cook for 
30 seconds, or until the asparagus is just tender. Drain and transfer to an ice-water bath until cool. Drain and pat dry with paper towels. Set aside.
 3. In a small saucepan, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter over medium-low heat. Add the 
cream and thyme. Heat until the cream is warm, stirring occasionally. Remove the thyme sprigs and discard. Stir in the lemon juice and season with salt and pepper to taste. Add additional lemon juice if needed. Cover and set aside.
 4. Sprinkle the salmon and trout with salt and pepper on both sides. Using a 2- to 
3-inch metal cookie cutter, cut each ﬁ  sh ﬁ llet into 4 circles.
 5. In a medium skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of the butter with 1 tablespoon of the remain-
ing oil over medium heat. Add the ﬁ  sh and cook on both sides until cooked through, 
3 to 4 minutes total for the trout and 6 to 9 minutes total for the salmon. Remove from the pan, tent with foil to keep warm, and set aside.
 6. Wipe the skillet with a paper towel and heat the remaining 1 tablespoon butter with 
the remaining 1 tablespoon oil. Add the mushrooms. Cook until the mushrooms are tender, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
For the Basil Oil:
  Combine the oil and basil in a blender and puree. Strain minced basil through a ﬁ  ne-
mesh sieve into a medium bowl. Discard the solids. Cover and refrigerate.
To Se rve:
  Spoon the cream sauce over serving plates, then top with the mushrooms. Arrange the asparagus over the mushrooms and top with one piece of trout and one piece of salmon. Add some roasted tomato wedges, drizzle with basil oil, and serve.“Our Michael did 
this? What the 
hell? He should get his tooth pulled every day.”
TOM COLICCHIO, 
HEAD JUDGE1 hour
Serv es 4
Winner
168    ENTRÉES: FISHchef: h osea 
season 5, episode 14 
elimination challenge: 
c
ook the best three-course meal of your life.seared s callops and f oie g ras 
with p ain p erdu and a pples
pecans:
1⁄2 cup pecan halves
1  tablespoon sugar
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cayenne
1  tablespoon vegetable oil
a
pples:
2 apples, cored and diced
1  cup cider vinegar
1⁄2 cup sugar
1  piece star anise
2 whole black peppercorns
1  cinnamon stick
m
aple 
f
oam:
1  cup heavy cream
1⁄2 cup foie gras scraps
1⁄2 cup maple syrup
1  piece star anise
s
alt and freshly ground black pepper  
to tastep
ain 
p
erdu:
2 large eggs
1  cup milk
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1  teaspoon sugar
1  teaspoon maple syrup
4 slices day-old or dried-out baguette
1⁄2 tablespoon unsalted butter
f
oie 
g
ras and 
s
callops:
4 jumbo scallops, cleaned and patted dry
4 (1⁄2-inch-thick) slices foie gras, veins and 
sinew removed
s
alt and freshly ground black pepper
1  tablespoon vegetable oil
g
rated green apple
f
resh chervil
for the p ecans: 
 
1.
 
p
reheat the oven to 350°
f
.
 
2. 
 t
oss all the ingredients together and spread the nuts out on a baking sheet. Bake 
until browned and sizzling, about 10 minutes. 
l
et cool completely, then crush into 
small bits.
f
or the 
a
pples:
 
 
c
ombine all the ingredients in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil over high heat, then 
reduce the heat to medium and cook, without stirring, until most of the liquid is gone 
and the apples are translucent, about 30 minutes. 
p
ick out the spices. 
c
over to keep 
warm, or reheat when ready to serve.
f
or the 
m
aple 
f
oam: 
 
1.
 
i
n a small saucepan, combine all the ingredients and bring to a boil ov er high heat, 
then reduce the heat and simmer for 15 minutes. 
a
dd more salt and pepper if neces-
sary. 
 
2. 
 
Blend with an immersion blender until foamy; alternatively, transfer to a blender and 
blend on high speed. 
c
over to keep warm.
170    entrées: fish
1 hour
s
erves 4
Winner
46132p170t171_051409.indd    170 5/19/09    3:16:05For the Pain Perdu: 
 1. In a wide dish, whisk together the eggs, milk, spices, sugar, and syrup. Add the bread 
and let soak for 10 minutes.
 2.  In a large skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the bread and cook until golden brown on the bottom, about 5 minutes, then flip and brown the other side. Transfer a slice to the center of each of 4 serving plates and place in a low oven to keep warm.
For the Foie Gras and Scallops:
 1. Season the scallops and foie gras with salt and pepper. Heat a medium sauté pan 
over high heat and add the oil. Add the scallops and cook without touching them until they are nicely browned on the bottom, 2 to 3 minutes. Turn and cook the other side until the bottom is browned but the scallops are still a bit translucent in the center, then place one scallop on top of each slice of pain perdu.
 2.  Add the foie gras to the hot pan and cook for 15 seconds on each side. Place a slice on top of each scallop.
3.  Reblend the maple foam if necessary, then spoon a small amount on top of the foie gras. Garnish the plate with a small spoonful of the apples and a pinch of the crushed pecans. Top the foie gras with the green apple and chervil and serve im-mediately.how to:  
Use Leftover  
Foie Gras
We should all have this problem. 
You’ll need just about one lobe of foie gras for this dish—that is, half of a liver—but most sources will only sell it by the whole liver. If it’s still somewhat frozen when you receive it, or if it has never been frozen, you can tightly wrap the leftover lobe in plastic wrap and then freezer paper, and it will keep for up to three months in the freezer. Use it for Harold’s Prime New York Strip Steaks with Foie Gras Sauce and Parsnip  Puree (page 108) or his Pan-Roasted Quail with Herb Spaetzle,  Cherries, and Foie Gras (page 142), or Hung’s Sous-Vide Duck with Truffle-Scented Broth and Mushroom Ragout (page 146). If there’s a fair amount of fat in the pan after searing foie gras slices, strain it into a heatproof cup and keep it in the refrigerator or freezer, tightly covered, to use for sautéeing potatoes or thinly sliced turnips—add a few thyme leaves and plenty of salt and pepper, and you’ll be in duck- fat heaven.
 
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE   “I CAN ’T SToP eATING  IT. I LoVe THe PAIN  PeRDU  BeCAUS e I THIN k IT ADDS  A  
SWeeTNeSS AND A BUTTeRYNeSS .”
 ENtréES: fISh     171CHEF: Brian M.
SEASON 3, EPISODE 2
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create an upscale barbecue dish for a summer party.Sea Bass, Scallop, and Shrimp Sausage 
with Jicama Slaw, Sweet Chili Glaze, and Asian Chimichurri
Sausage:
1  pound Corvina or any other sea bass 
ﬁ llet, cut into 1-inch pieces
1⁄2 pound black tiger shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
1⁄2 pound scallops
1  garlic clove, minced 
One 1-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and 
minced
4 scallions, ﬁ  nely chopped
1  bunch fresh cilantro, stemmed and 
chopped
1⁄2 cup vegetable oil
1  teaspoon sesame oil2 teaspoons red wine vinegar2 teaspoons soy sauceSalt and freshly ground black pepper 
to taste
Sweet Chili Glaze:
1⁄2 cup sambal chili paste, or more to taste1⁄2 cup honey, or more to taste
1⁄4 cup red wine vinegar
2 teaspoons cornstarch
Jicama Slaw:
1  small jicama, peeled 1  small red bell pepper, cored and seeded1  carrot 
1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro, stemmed and 
chopped
Asian Chimichurri:
1⁄2 shallot
1⁄2 cup peeled chopped fresh ginger 
1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro, stemmed
1⁄4 cup sriracha hot sauce
2 teaspoons soy sauce1  teaspoon sesame oil
1⁄4 cup red wine vinegar
3⁄4 cup vegetable oil
For the Sausage:
 1. Put the ﬁ  sh, shrimp, and scallops in a food processor and pulse until smooth. 
Add all the remaining ingredients for the sausage and pulse to combine. Transfer the 
sausage mixture to a piping bag (or a heavy-duty zip-top bag; cut off one corner with scissors).
 2. Place a large pot of water over high heat and bring to a boil; ﬁ  ll a large bowl with ice 
water and set aside. 
 3. Lay a 12-inch-long piece of plastic wrap on a work surface and pipe a 1-inch-
diameter strip of the sausage mixture down the center of the plastic, about 6 inches long. Wrap the sausage mixture tightly, forming it into a smooth sausage shape, and twist the ends of the plastic tightly. Set aside and repeat with the remaining sausage mixture.
 4. When the water is boiling, carefully lower half of the plastic-wrapped sausages into 
the water. Bring to a simmer and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, until ﬁ  rm to the touch. 
Using tongs, transfer the sausages to the ice-w ater bath. Repeat with the remaining 
sausages. Set aside while you make the chili glaze and jicama slaw.1 hour
Serv es 4
Winner
TIMESAVER !
If you prefer not to poach and grill the sausages, chill the seafood mixture well in the freezer, then shape it into patties on a lightly oiled baking sheet and chill again to ﬁ  rm them up 
slightly. Broil the sausages in the oven on the baking sheet, brushing them with the glaze occasionally and turning them with a thin metal spatula, until browned and cooked through.
172    ENTRÉES: FISHFor the Sweet Chili Glaze:
 1. In a small saucepan, combine the chili paste, honey, and vinegar and bring to a boil 
over high heat. 
 2. In a cup, combine the cornstarch with 2 teaspoons water, stirring until smooth. 
Whisk the cornstarch slurry into the chili paste mixture and boil for 3 minutes. Taste; 
if the glaze is too spicy, add more honey; if you prefer it hotter, add more chili paste. Set aside.
For the Jicama Slaw:
  Cut the jicama, pepper, and carrot into julienne strips. In a large bowl, toss the veg-etables together with the cilantro. Set aside.
For the Asian Chimichurri:
 1. Put all the ingredients except the vegetable oil in a blender and blend on high speed 
until combined. With the motor running, slowly add the vegetable oil in a thin stream through the hole in the lid. 
 2. Reserve 
1⁄4 cup of the chimichurri and use most of the remaining chimichurri to dress 
the jicama slaw, tossing to coat well. 
To Grill and Serve:
 1. Preheat a charcoal grill and set the grate about 8 inches above the coals. 
 2. Remove the plastic wrap from the sausages. 
 3. Lightly brush the grate with oil. When the ﬂ  ames have died down and the coals are 
white, place the sausages on the grill and cook for about 10 minutes, turning with a thin metal spatula and brushing them with the chili glaze as they cook, until well browned and grill-marked.
 4. Divide the jicama slaw among 4 serving plates. Place 2 sausages on each plate and 
serve immediately.“This had Latin 
and Asian ﬂ  avors 
that really worked nicely together. It was perfect to be served outdoors for the upscale barbecue.”
BRIAN
ENTRÉES: FISH     173CHEF: H arold
SEASON 1, EPISODE 9
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Re- create a classic junk-food item.
Ecuadorian Ceviche:
3 large tomatoes, quartered
1⁄4 cup fresh orange juice 
1⁄2 cup fresh lime juice
2 teaspoons sugar
1  red onion, dicedSalt and freshly ground black pepper
1  pound large shrimp, peeled and deveined1  pound squid, cleaned, tentacles sepa-
rated and chopped, bodies cut into 
1⁄4-inch rings
1⁄4 cup chopped fresh cilantro, plus more 
for garnishPopcorn Cakes:
1⁄2 cup seltzer water
1  large egg
1⁄2 teaspoon salt, plus more for sprinkling
1⁄2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 teaspoons minced fresh chives
1⁄2 cup all-purpose ﬂ  our
1  bag salted microwave popcorn, popped, 
cooled, and roughly broken up with 
your hands
Vegetable oil for frying
For the Ecuadorian Ceviche:
 1. Put the tomatoes in a food processor and puree until smooth. Line a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve 
with a double layer of cheesecloth and place over a bowl large enough to hold the 
liquid from the tomatoes without letting the sieve touch the liquid. Place the sieve on top of the bowl, pour in the tomato puree, cover, and refrigerate overnight without stirring or pressing down on the solids. 
 2. Discard the tomato puree and transfer the tomato liquid to a measuring cup. Mea-
sure out 1 cup liquid and save the rest for another use.
 3. In a large bowl, whisk together the tomato liquid, orange juice, lime juice, sugar, 
onion, and salt and pepper to taste.
 4. Bring a large pot of water to a simmer. Add the shrimp and cook until just cooked 
through, about 1 minute. Add the squid and cook until just tender, about 40 seconds.
 5. Drain the shrimp and squid well and add to the marinade. Place in the refrigerator 
for at least 3 hours or up to 8 hours to marinate, stirring occasionally. Just before serving, stir in the cilantro.
For the Popcorn Cakes:
 1. Whisk the seltzer water, egg, salt, and pepper in a large bowl until frothy. Whisk in the 
chives, then whisk in the ﬂ  our. Stir in the popcorn until just coated with the batter.
 2. In a large skillet, heat 
1⁄2 inch of oil over medium heat until hot but not smoking. In 
batches, drop the batter by tablespoons into the oil and fry until nicely browned on both sides, about 2 minutes. 
 3. Remove the popcorn cakes with a slotted spoon and transfer to paper towels to 
drain. Sprinkle lightly with salt.
 To Serve: 
  Using a slotted spoon, place the ceviche in small bowls, then spoon the marinade 
on top. Garnish with cilantro. Place the popcorn cakes alongside and serve.“The fact of the 
matter is, I’m not 
here to cook junk food. I’m going to take the healthi-
est thing up there and make some-thing with it.”
HAROLD30 minutes, plus straining overnight and marinating 3 hours
Serves  6 to 8
ENTRÉES: FISH     175Ecuadorian Ceviche  
with Popcorn CakesCHEF: Betty
SEASON 2, EPISODE 1
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a ﬂ  ambé dish in a limited amount of time.Spicy Coconut Curry Steamed Mussels
with Mango Couscous
4 pounds fresh mussels, scrubbed and 
debearded
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
One 2-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled and 
minced
1  small red onion, minced1  tablespoon red curry paste, or to tasteOne 13 
1⁄2-ounce can unsweetened 
coconut milk
3 cups low-sodium vegetable stockJuice and ﬁ  nely minced zest of 2 limes 1  teaspoon ground coriander
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 cups instant couscous1  mango, peeled and diced
1⁄4 cup cognac
2 tablespoons sugar
1⁄4 cup chopped fresh basil
1⁄4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
 1. Discard any mussels with cracked shells, and those that do not close when 
tapped gently. 
 2. In a large sauté pan or skillet with a lid, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil and add the 
ginger and onion. Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until the onion is just 
starting to soften, about 3 minutes. Add the curry paste and stir well to coat the ginger and onion. Add the coconut milk and 1 cup of the stock and raise the heat to high; bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes, or until reduced slightly. Add the lime zest and mussels, then put the lid on and cook over medium-high heat for 6 to 8 min-utes, until all the mussels are open. Discard any unopened mussels after 8 minutes. 
 3. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan, bring the remaining 2 cups stock, the remaining 
1 tablespoon oil, the ground coriander, the salt, and a pinch of pepper to a boil. Add the couscous and stir. Cover the pan and remove from the heat. Let stand for 5 minutes, then ﬂ  uff with a fork and gently fold in the mango.
 4. In a small sauté pan or skillet, combine the lime juice, cognac, and sugar. Cook over 
low heat, stirring frequently, until the sugar is dissolved, then carefully ignite the mixture and pour it over the mussels. Stir in the basil and cilantro and serve immedi-ately with the couscous.30 minutes
Serv es 4
CHEF AND SEASON 1 WINNER HAROLD DIETERLE, GUEST JUDGE    “EVERYTHING WAS SPOT ON. I WANTED TO SIT 
DOWN AND EAT THE WHOLE BOWL.”
176    ENTRÉES: FISHWHAT IS . . . 
Good Fat?
Coconut milk contains both the oils and the ﬂ  avors found in 
coconut. Though saturated, the fats in coconut oil form shorter molecules than the fatty acids in foods such as meat and eggs. These medium-length fatty acids actually help lower the risk of heart disease. Lauric acid, the main fatty acid in coconut oil, has antiviral, antibacterial, and antifungal properties. CHEF: T iffani
SEASON 1, EPISODE 3
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: P repare octopus for Chef Laurent Manrique.Red Wine–Braised Angel Hair Pasta 
with Cold Octopus and Tomato Succo with Octopus Frit 
Red Wine–Braised Angel Hair Pasta:
One 3-pound octopus, cleaned
6 cups red wine3 cups chicken stock6 garlic cloves, peeled and left whole2 shallots, chopped
1⁄2 bunch fresh thyme
1⁄2 pound angel hair pasta 
4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil1  tablespoon fresh lemon juice, or to taste1  tablespoon ﬁ  nely chopped fresh basil
1  tablespoon ﬁ  nely chopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf 
parsley
Salt and freshly ground black pepperCold Octopus:Octopus body, braisedAbout 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oilSalt and freshly ground black pepper
Octopus Frit:Canola oil for fryingAbout 
1⁄2 cup all-purpose ﬂ  our
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Octopus tentacles, braised
1⁄4 cup pine nuts for garnish
Tomato Succo (see right)
For the Red Wine–Braised Angel Hair Pasta:
 1. Submerge the octopus in a large pot of boiling water for 5 minutes. Drain. Remove 
the head and discard it. Cut the body into 1-inch chunks and cut the tentacles in half.  
Remove the outer layer of skin from the octopus. In a large bowl, combine the octo-
pus body and tentacles, the wine, stock, garlic, and shallots. Cover and refrigerate to marinate for at least 2 hours or overnight. 
 2. Put the octopus and marinade in a large saucepan and place over medium-high heat. 
Add the thyme and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat, cover the pot, and simmer for about 2 hours, or until the meat is fork-tender. Remove the octopus from the brais-ing liquid, strain the liquid, then return the liquid to the pot and bring to a boil.
 3. Add the pasta to the braising liquid and cook to al dente, about 2 minutes. Drain and 
toss with the oil, lemon juice, basil, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste.
For the Cold Octopus:
  Preheat a grill or stovetop grill pan to medium-high. Place the octopus body pieces 
in a bowl and toss with oil to coat. Season with salt and pepper. Place on the grill and sear until browned on all sides, about 5 minutes total. Remove from the heat and thinly slice. Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
For the Octopus Frit:
  In a large, heavy pot, heat 3 inches of oil to 375°F.  Spread the ﬂ  our on a plate and 
season with salt and pepper. Toss the tentacles in the ﬂ  our, shake to remove excess 
ﬂ our, and fry until golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon to 
paper towels to drain. Season with salt and pepper. 
To Se rve:
  Place the pasta on serving plates, top with the sliced octopus, and garnish with the pine nuts. Serve the succo in dipping bowls with the tentacles alongside. ON THE SIDE:
Tomato Succo
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1  shallot, sliced
2 garlic cloves, sliced5 ripe yellow tomatoes, peeled, 
cored, and chopped
1  tablespoon capers, drained1  tablespoon fresh lemon 
juice, or to taste
Salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
1.  While the octopus is brais-
ing, in a medium saucepan, heat 2 tablespoons of the oil over medium heat. Add the shallot and garlic and sauté until the vegetables are soft-ened, about 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes and capers and cook until the tomatoes start to break down, about 5 minutes. Add the lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. 
2.  Transfer the sauce to a 
blender and pulse until smooth with a few chunks remaining. Set aside until ready to serve.3 hours, plus marinating 
at least 2 hours
Serves  4
Winner
ENTRÉES: FISH     177CHEF: T iffani 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 4
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a gourmet entrée that can be reheated in the microwave.Mirin-Glazed Sea Bass
 
6 tablespoons mirin
1⁄4 cup white miso paste 
1⁄4 cup teriyaki sauce
1⁄4 cup Shaoxing wineTwo 6-ounce pieces sea bass ﬁ  llet
1  tablespoon vegetable oil 
2 fresh purple shiso sprigs2 fresh salad burnet sprigs
 1. In a container large enough to hold the ﬁ  sh, combine the mirin, miso paste, 
teriyaki sauce, and Shaoxing. Put the ﬁ  sh in the marinade and refrigerate, covered, 
overnight. 
 2. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Remove the 
ﬁ sh from the marinade, scraping off the excess, and pat dry. Put the ﬁ  sh in the pan 
and cook, without turning, for 3 minutes, until well browned on the bottom; turn and 
cook the other side for about 3 minutes, until browned and just cooked through—the ﬁ sh will ﬂ  ake easily when prodded with a knife; turn the heat down to medium if the 
ﬁ sh is browning too quickly.
 3. Place the ﬁ  sh on serving plates and garnish with purple shiso and salad burnet 
sprigs. Serve immediately.10 minutes, plus 
marinating overnight
Serv es 2
Winner
WHAT IS . . .  
Sea Bass?
The perplexing nomenclature surrounding certain varieties of oily, ﬁ  rm white-ﬂ  eshed ﬁ  sh could 
make one swear off seafood alto-gether—if the ﬁ  sh weren’t all so 
delicious. Here’s a cheat sheet:
Sea bass : One of the most 
common bass in ﬁ  sh markets, 
harvested along the East Coast.Striped bass:  Caught along the 
East Coast, though some states 
have banned commercial ﬁ  shing 
of striped bass. Farmed striped bass is usually at the market fresher than wild.
European bass:  Most commonly 
found in the Mediterranean; 
known as 
loup de mer  (“sea 
wolf”) in France and branzino  
in Italy.
Chilean sea bass:  Not a true 
bass, this ﬁ  sh is more accurately 
known as Patagonian toothﬁ  sh.
Escolar:  Deep-water ﬁ  sh that 
lives in tropical and temperate 
climates. Not a bass but a snake mackerel, escolar is sometimes referred to as “white tuna.”
178    ENTRÉES: FISHWhen executive producer Andy Cohen 
imagined a show about aspiring chefs, he might have imagined something sedate and civil. 
That illusion lasted until Ken Lee began pissing off all 
his fellow contestants and the guest chef, Hubert Keller, 
and the judges. “I don’t think I realized just how dramatic 
chefs are,” Cohen says. “Then Candice Kumai was sud-denly calling Stephen Asprinio ‘a tool and a douche bag.’ I was like, ‘Are you kidding me? This is happening on our chefs’ show?!’ ” That certainly wouldn’t be the last of the great 
Top Chef  showdowns.Knives Out! Top Feuds
180    KNIVES OUT! TOP FEUDSHOWIE JOEY
“When we cast Howie and Joey we thought,
‘Well, they have similar backgrounds, maybe 
they’ll get along well,’ ” says executive producer Dan Cutforth. Um, try again.
“Next time I’m in that room, I’ll walk out. Next time 
you’re in there, you better step up and be a man.”
“You’ve been blaming everybody else for your 
bull@#$!. Shake somebody’s @#$!ing hand and 
be a man. You be a @#$!ing man. You wanna know 
what? I would’ve been a @#$!ing man about it and 
you would’ve @#$!ing bitched about it like a little 
girl like you’ve been doing all day.”
 “Want me to go home now?”
“I don’t give a @#$! what you do. I’m here to do 
my best. You do your best. We’ll see what happens.  
Alright?”VS.
Season 3, Episode 2  TIFFANI DAVEVS.
The ﬁ  rst and maybe greatest of the Top Chef 
feuds, this battle started with a great line 
(“I’m not your bitch, bitch”) but ended with real consequences when Dave wound up in the position to help or hurt Tiffani as her sous-chef in the ﬁ  nale.  
“Tiffani had her vision, and that’s great, but you 
can’t be everything in a team of three.”
“No—”
“It’s my turn to talk, OK? I’ve heard you talk for 
the last twenty-four hours so let’s just zip it.”
“I didn’t bash you.”
“You’ve been bashing me for the last twenty-four 
hours. ‘Don’t touch that, don’t touch that…’ ”
“When did I ever say that?”
“Every time! I’m not your bitch, bitch. Let’s get 
through it. I don’t need to be talked to and 
treated like @#$!.”
Season 1, Episode 7  
MARCEL BETTY
CANDICE STEPHENVS.
VS.
KNIVES OUT! TOP FEUDS      181“It was really strange,” says executive producer 
Shauna Minoprio. “We kept hearing about how, one by one, Marcel was getting under every-body’s skin. But then we’d look back at the tape and we couldn’t ﬁ  nd what he was doing.” Still, 
one has to believe the numbers. Something was going on between the molecular gastronomist and the rest of the house. 
“You never once offered to help me. I offered to help 
you. How could you ever tell me that I’m selﬁ  sh?”
 “You never helped to set up that kitchen.”
 “Did you help me set up my kitchen?” 
“I help you all the time.”
“Did you ask me for help today? Did you ask me?
 It’s a yes or no question.”
“No, it’s not a yes or no question, it’s an explanation, 
so sit the @#$! down and, if you’re asking me a 
question, let me tell you the answer.” 
“Did I have to help you?”
“No, and I kind of wish you didn’t.”
“I’m still selﬁ  sh, and you’re still a bitch. I hope you 
go home.”FRANK
ILAN
A feud with a happy ending. Stephen may have crossed the line when he told Candice, the culinary school student, that she would “fail. Horribly.” But his heartfelt apology at the reunion mended all fences. Still, it was shocking at the time. 
“I have standards unlike you do. Obviously.”
“Obviously you’re a tool and a douche bag.”
“Can you think of anything smarter?”
“No, you’re a tool.”
“You will not succeed and you will fail. Horribly. 
The competition is called Top Chef . I don’t accept 
mediocrity.”
“Fine, then go ahead and call me mediocrity. 
Use your fancy, stupid @#$!ing words. Get 
over yourself!”CLIFFELIA
VS.VS.VS.VS.
Season 1, Episode 3  Season 2, Episode 6  
Entrées: Vegetarian
188186185
Dave’s  Trufﬂ  e and Cognac Cream 
Macaroni and Cheese 
Marcel’s  Tempura Vegetables and 
Mozzarella 
with Cornichon Mayonnaise
Sam’s  Summer Fruit Salad
with Spicy Mint Chimichurri and Spinach
Sara M.’s  Chiles Rellenos
Miguel’s  Deconstructed Falafel
Carlos’s  Sunﬂ  ower Seed and Carrot Loaf 
with Cilantro, Sesame Oil, and Squirt®
Elia’s  Portobello and Button 
Mushroom Crème 
with Walnuts 185
186
187
188
190
191
193198196193
Betty’s  Grilled Cheese with Portobello 
Mushrooms 
and Roasted Red Pepper Soup 
Dave’s  Lasagna with Two Sauces
and a Colorful Vegetable Medley 
Andrea’s  Quinoa Pilaf 
with Curried Sweet Potato Mash194
196
198CHEF: Dave
SEASON 1, EPISODE 9ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a dish with expensive black trufﬂ  es.Trufﬂ e and Cognac Cream Macaroni and Cheese  
 
Unsalted butter for the baking dishes
1  cup cognac1  tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil1  small shallot, minced6 roasted garlic cloves (see page 197), 
minced
1  tablespoon sherry6 ounces Perigord black trufﬂ  es: 3 ounces 
ﬁ nely chopped, 1 
1⁄2 ounces thinly sliced 
with a trufﬂ  e slicer, mandoline, or very 
sharp knife, and 1 1⁄2 ounces ﬁ  nely grated
4 cups heavy cream2 teaspoons minced fresh oregano2 teaspoons fresh thyme leaves6 ounces Parmesan cheese, ﬁ  nely grated 
(about 2 cups), plus more for sprinkling
2 teaspoons chipotle Tabasco
® sauce
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1  pound fresh penne or other pasta, 
cooked al dente
8 ounces fontina cheese, ﬁ  nely grated 
(about 2 1⁄2 cups)
2 cups seasoned sourdough croutons
 1. Generously butter the bottom and sides of 4 to 6 medium baking dishes. Set aside.
 2. Place the cognac in a small saucepan or skillet over medium heat. Bring to a 
simmer and cook until reduced by half, 10 to 15 minutes. Remove from the heat 
and set aside.
 3. In a large saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the shallot and garlic and 
cook until the vegetables are softened but not browned, about 3 minutes. Add the sherry and stir until evaporated. Add the chopped trufﬂ  es, cream, reduced cognac, 
oregano, and thyme. 
 4. Bring to a simmer, reduce the heat to medium-low, and cook, stirring occasion-
ally, until the mixture is reduced by half and the trufﬂ  e ﬂ avor is infused, about 20 
minutes. Watch the pot carefully so the cream doesn’t boil over. Add the Parmesan cheese, Tabasco
®, and salt and pepper to taste. Add the cooked pasta and fontina 
cheese and stir until the cheeses are melted. Taste and adjust the seasoning if nec-essary. Set aside.
 5. Place the croutons in a food processor and process until broken down into crumbs.
 6. Arrange a layer of trufﬂ  e slices on the bottom of each baking dish.
 7. Divide the pasta among the baking dishes and top with the crouton crumbs, grated trufﬂ  es, and a sprinkling of Parmesan cheese. Bake for about 20 minutes, or until 
bubbly and browned on top.2 hours
Serves  4 to 6
Winner
“This is my 
signature dish. 
Everyone knows 
me for it.”
DAVE
ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN     185Tempura Vegetables and Mozzarella  
with Cornichon Mayonnaise 
CHEF: Mar cel 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 10
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Divide into two teams and turn an empty space into a restaurant in 24 hours.
1  eggplant
1  zucchini2 yellow squash2 shallotsSalt
1  cup mayonnaise3 cornichons, chopped2 garlic cloves, ﬁ  nely chopped
Freshly ground black pepper 
2 
1⁄2 cups all-purpose ﬂ  our1  cup cornstarch2 teaspoons baking powder3 cups sparkling waterVegetable oil for frying
1  large bunch fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley, tough 
stems removed
1  pint bocconcini (mozzarella balls), 
drained
2 large eggs, beaten1 
1⁄4 cups dry bread crumbs
 1. Cut the eggplant, zucchini, and squash into 1⁄4-inch-thick rounds. Cut the shallots 
lengthwise into quarters. Sprinkle the eggplant slices on both sides with salt and set 
aside for 1 hour.
 2. In a small bowl, stir together the mayonnaise, cornichons, and garlic. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste and set aside.
 3. In a medium bowl, whisk together 2 cups of the ﬂ  our, the cornstarch, and baking 
powder. Add the sparkling water and stir gently until just combined. Refrigerate the batter until ready to use.
 4. Preheat the oven to 200°F.
 5. In a large, heavy pot, heat 2 to 3 inches of oil to 300°F.
 6. Hold a few sprigs of parsley in your ﬁ  ngers or with tongs and dip them into the bat-
ter, letting the excess drain off. Carefully lower the parsley into the hot oil and cook until crisp, about 5 seconds. Using a slotted spoon, transfer to paper towels to drain. Sprinkle with salt while still warm. Put the baking sheet in the oven to keep warm.
 7. Increase the heat and heat the oil to 350°F.
 8. Pat the eggplant dry with paper towels. One at a time, dip the vegetables in the bat-
ter, letting the excess drain off. Carefully lower the vegetables into the hot oil and cook, turning occasionally, until golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes, taking care not to overcrowd the pot. Using the slotted spoon, transfer the vegetables as they brown to the baking sheet in the oven. Sprinkle with salt while still warm. Repeat with the remaining vegetables.
 9. Dredge the bocconcini in the remaining ﬂ  our. Dip in the beaten eggs, then in the 
bread crumbs. Fry for 30 seconds, or until browned. Sprinkle with salt while still hot.
 10. Pile the fried parsley, vegetables, and bocconcini on a serving platter. Serve immedi-
ately with the cornichon mayonnaise.1 hour, 15 minutes
Serv es 8
“Marcel’s dish 
was crispy and 
well seasoned. I thought it was nice.”
CHEF AND RESTAURA-TEUR MIKE YAKURA, GUEST JUDGE
186   ENTRÉES: VEGETARIANCHEF: Sam 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 3ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Update a childhood classic for T.G.I. Friday’s.Summer Fruit Salad  
with Spicy Mint Chimichurri and Spinach
Spicy Mint Chimichurri:
1⁄2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1⁄2 cup chopped fresh mint leaves
2 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro2 tablespoons chopped fresh ﬂ  at-leaf 
parsley
1  teaspoon chopped shallot1  tablespoon chopped garlic 
3⁄4 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
Salt to taste
Summer Fruit Salad:1  cup chopped fresh pineapple1  cup chopped fresh watermelon, seeds 
removed
1  cup chopped fresh cantaloupe
1⁄4 cup seedless green grapes, halved
1⁄4 cup seedless red grapes, halved
1⁄2 cup diced roasted red peppers
Spinach Salad:6 cups chopped baby spinach3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oilJuice of 1 lemon, or to tasteSalt and freshly ground black pepper
To Se rve:
1⁄2 cup grated Gouda cheese
For the Spicy Mint Chimichurri:
  In a food processor, combine all the ingredients and process until smooth.
For the Summer Fruit Salad:
 1. In a large bowl, combine all the ingredients. 
 2. Add the chimichurri sauce and mix well to coat the fruit. Cover and refrigerate for 
about 30 minutes for the fruit to marinate.
For the Spinach Salad:
  Place the spinach in a large bowl and toss with the oil. Add the lemon juice and salt 
and pepper to taste and toss.
To Se rve:
  Divide the spinach among serving plates. Arrange the fruit mixture on top of the spinach and garnish with the cheese.1 hour
Serves  6
“I loved that it was 
sophisticated and 
fun, easy and light. So cool on a hot day.”
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE
ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN    187CHEF STEPHEN BULGARELLI, GUEST JUDGE    “TREMENDOUS FLAVOR. EXCITING AND HEALTHY AND CRAVEABLE.”CHEF: Sara M. 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 5ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: P repare a Latin lunch for the cast of a telenovela.Chiles Rellenos 
 
Black Beans:
1  pound dried black beans1  tablespoon olive oil1  white onion, diced4 garlic cloves, chopped1  tablespoon chili powder1  tablespoon ground cumin 3 
1⁄2 quarts low-sodium vegetable stock or 
water, or more if needed
1  bay leafSalt and freshly ground black pepper
Poblanos:
10 medium poblano chiles1  tablespoon olive oil
1⁄2 onion, chopped1  zucchini, ﬁ  nely diced 
1  yellow squash, ﬁ  nely diced 
3 garlic cloves, choppedSalt and freshly ground black pepper 
2 cups cooked long-grain white rice
1⁄4 cup raisins
1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro, chopped, plus 
more leaves for garnish
Avocado Butter:
4 Hass avocados1  cup milk
1⁄2 cup olive oil
Salt to taste
Roasted Pepper Sauce (see left)
For the Black Beans:
  Soak the beans overnight in enough cold water to cover; drain. In a large pot, heat 
the oil over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and sauté until translucent, 
about 5 minutes. Add the chili powder and cumin and cook, stirring, until fragrant. Add the stock, beans, and bay leaf. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat. Simmer for about 1 
1⁄2 hours, until the beans are tender but not falling apart, adding more stock if 
necessary to keep the beans covered, and occasionally skimming the foam from the surface. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
For the Poblanos:
 1. Roast the chiles directly over a gas ﬂ  ame, turning with tongs until blackened. Place 
in a heat-proof bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside for 20 minutes. Remove the blackened skin. Make a lengthwise slit and remove the seeds and ribs.
 2. Preheat the oven to 350°F. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over medium-
high heat. Add the onion, zucchini, squash, and garlic and sauté until just softened. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Let cool to room temperature, then transfer 
to a large bowl and fold in the rice, raisins, and cilantro. Stuff the poblanos with the rice mixture and place them in two 9-by-11-inch baking dishes. Cover the dishes with aluminum foil. Bake for 20 minutes, or until heated through.
For the Avocado Butter: 
  Puree 3 of the avocados, the milk, oil, and salt in a blender until smooth.
To Se rve:
  Spoon some of the pepper sauce onto each of 10 serving plates. Spoon on some beans, then place the stuffed peppers on the plates and put a dollop of the avocado butter and a slice of avocado on each plate. Serve, garnished with cilantro leaves.2 hours, plus soaking 
overnight
Serv es 10
ON THE SIDE: 
Roasted 
Pepper Sauce
3 red bell peppers, seeded and 
quartered
1  red onion, quartered
2 tomatoes, quartered4 garlic cloves, smashed2 tablespoons olive oilSalt and freshly ground black 
pepper
Juice of 
1⁄2 lime, or more to 
taste
1.  Preheat the oven to 500°F. 
2.  In a large roasting pan, 
toss the red peppers, onion, tomatoes, and garlic with 1 tablespoon of the oil and season with salt and pepper. Roast until the vegetables are 
very soft, about 25 minutes.
3.  Transfer to a blender and 
puree until smooth. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon oil and the lime juice. Taste and season with more salt and pep-per or lime juice if necessary. Set aside.
188    ENTRÉES: VEGETARIANCHEF: Miguel
SEASON 1, EPISODE 7
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Build a sandwich for Tom’s ’wichcraft restaurants.Deconstructed Falafel
Falafel Bun:
One 15-ounce can chickpeas, rinsed and 
drained
1  tablespoon minced fresh ﬂ  at-leaf parsley
1  garlic clove, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice, or to taste
2 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon baking soda
1  large eggVegetable oil for fryingVegetables:
4 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil1  portobello mushroom cap, thinly slicedSalt and freshly ground black pepper
1  small zucchini, thinly sliced horizontally8 pickle slices
1⁄2 cup alfalfa sprouts
For the Falafel Bun:
 1. In a food processor, combine the chickpeas, parsley, garlic, cumin, and salt and pep-
per to taste and puree until smooth. Remove 3 tablespoons of the hummus mixture, 
combine it with the lemon juice, and reserve for the sandwich. Add the ﬂ  our, baking 
soda, and egg to the mixture in the food processor and pulse to combine. Transfer to a bowl and shape into 4 patties. Place the patties on a plate and let stand for 15 minutes. 
 2. In a large skillet, heat 
1⁄2 inch of oil over medium heat until hot. Add the patties and 
fry until cooked through, crisp, and nicely browned, about 4 minutes on each side. Transfer to paper towels to drain.
For the Vegetables:
  In a small skillet, heat 2 teaspoons of the oil over medium-high heat. Add the mush-room and cook, stirring, until lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Remove from the pan and place on a plate. Add the remaining 2 teaspoons oil to the skillet, add the zucchini, and cook until lightly browned on both sides, about 5 minutes. Transfer to the plate with the mushrooms. (Alterna-tively, cook over a medium-hot outdoor grill.)
To Se rve:
  Place a falafel patty on each serving plate. Top with the mushrooms, followed by the zucchini, reserved hummus, and pickles. Finish with the alfalfa sprouts and serve immediately.45 minutes
Serv es 4
“Miguel would have 
won this challenge 
hands down if he had made a sandwich. The ﬂ avors were great. 
If it had bread, it would’ve been on my menu.”
TOM COLICCHIO, 
HEAD JUDGE
190    ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN20 minutes
Serves  4
WinnerCHEF: Carlos
SEASON 2, EPISODE 4
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create an amuse-bouche using ingredients from a vending machine.Sunﬂ  ower Seed and Carrot Loaf 
with Cilantro, Sesame Oil, and Squirt®
One 5-ounce bag sunﬂ  ower seed kernels
1⁄2 bunch fresh cilantro, stemmed, plus 
4 leaves for garnish
Two 2-ounce packages peeled carrots 
(about 2 regular-size carrots)
4 drops toasted sesame oil 
1  teaspoon fresh lime juice Pinch of salt Pinch of white pepper Ground cayenne 1  hard-cooked egg, white only1  tablespoon Squirt
® soda
 1. In a small bowl, soak the sunﬂ  ower seeds in enough water to cover for 15 minutes. 
Drain and put in a food processor.
 2. Chop the 1⁄2 bunch cilantro and add it to the food processor, along with the carrots, 
oil, lime juice, salt, white pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Process until ﬁ  nely ground.
 3. Using your hands, form the mixture into 4 small loaves on individual serving plates. 
Garnish each loaf with a few pieces of chopped egg white, a cilantro leaf, and a 
pinch of cayenne. Sprinkle the top with soda. Serve immediately.
ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN     191CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR SUZANNE GOIN, GUEST JUDGE    “NICE AND BRIGHT AND CLEAN. CARLOS WAS REALLY 
GOING BY THE GUIDELINES OF WHAT AN AMUSE-BOUCHE SHOULD BE.”CHEF: Elia
SEASON 2, EPISODE 6
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: R einvent traditional ingredients for a cutting-edge Thanksgiving dinner.Portobello and Button Mushroom Crème 
with Walnuts
3 tablespoons olive oil
1  pound button mushrooms, slicedSalt and freshly ground black pepper
4 
1⁄4 cups heavy cream
2 cups low-sodium vegetable stock1  tablespoon unsalted butter3 portobello mushroom caps, cut into 
cubes
1  cup chopped walnuts, toasted2 tablespoons chopped fresh chives
 1. In a large saucepan, heat 2 tablespoons of the oil over medium heat. Add the button 
mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 5 minutes, until beginning to 
soften. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
 2. Add the cream and stock and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer for 20 min-
utes. Cover and simmer for 20 minutes longer. Remove from the heat and let stand, covered, for 20 minutes. Pour the soup through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve set over a clean 
saucepan; discard the mushrooms.
 3. Meanwhile, in a small skillet, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil and the butter over 
medium-high heat. Add the portobello mushrooms and cook for about 3 minutes, until beginning to soften. Remove from the heat.
 4. Rewarm the soup over low heat if necessary. Divide the soup among 4 to 6 
serving bowls and top with the portobello mushrooms, walnuts, and chives. Serve immediately.1 hour, 15 minutes
Serves  4 to 6
Winner
 GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE   “I LOVED THE TEXTURE, I LOVED THE NUTTINESS. THEY COMPLEMENTED THE 
MUSHROOMS REALLY WELL.”
ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN     193CHEF: Betty
SEASON 2, EPISODE 3
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Update a childhood classic for T.G.I. Friday’s.Grilled Cheese with Portobello Mushrooms  
and Roasted Red Pepper Soup
5 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1  large red onion, thinly slicedSalt and freshly ground black pepper
1  pint grape tomatoes, halved1  tablespoon balsamic vinegar, or to taste3 large portobello mushroom caps, thinly 
sliced
1⁄4 cup white wine 4 tablespoons unsalted butter3 fresh thyme sprigs10 slices sourdough bread1 
1⁄4 cups coarsely grated provolone cheese
1 1⁄4 cups coarsely grated Monterey Jack 
cheese
Roasted Red Pepper Soup (see left)
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 2. In a medium skillet, combine 2 tablespoons of the oil and the red onion and place 
over medium heat. Cook until the onion starts to soften, about 5 minutes. Season 
with salt and pepper to taste and transfer to a roasting dish big enough to ﬁ  t the 
onion, tomatoes, and mushrooms.
 3. In the same skillet, combine the tomatoes with 1 tablespoon of the oil and the vinegar 
over medium heat. Cook until the tomatoes start to soften, about 5 minutes. Transfer to the roasting dish with the onions.
 4. In a medium bowl, gently toss the mushrooms with the remaining 2 tablespoons 
oil. Transfer to the roasting dish with the other ingredients. Add the wine and stir to combine.
 5. Place the roasting dish in the oven and bake for 25 to 30 minutes, until the vegeta-
bles are softened and lightly caramelized and the liquid is absorbed.  Remove from the oven and cool to room temperature.
 6. While you’re roasting the vegetables, in a small saucepan, combine the butter with 
the thyme sprigs and place over low heat. Heat until the butter is melted. Remove from the heat. 
 7. Remove the thyme sprigs from the melted butter and brush one side of each slice of 
bread with the butter. Place the slices buttered side down on a baking sheet or other clean surface. Spread half of the slices with 
1⁄4 cup provolone cheese and 1⁄4 cup 
Monterey Jack cheese each. Top the cheese with the mushroom mixture, dividing evenly among the slices. Place the remaining bread slices on top, buttered side up.
 8. Preheat a griddle or skillet over medium-high heat until hot. Place each sandwich 
on the griddle and cook until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes, pressing down on the sandwiches with a metal spatula to help them sear. Flip and cook the other side until golden brown and the cheese is melted, 2 to 3 minutes more. 
 9. Serve the soup, garnished with basil, with the sandwiches, cut in half, on the side.ON THE SIDE: 
Roasted Red 
Pepper Soup
3 medium red bell peppers
1⁄4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1  medium carrot, diced
1  medium celery rib, diced1  large red onion, dicedTwo 28-ounce cans whole 
tomatoes in juice
1⁄2 cup chopped fresh basil 
leaves, plus more for garnish
1  tablespoon balsamic vinegarSalt and freshly ground black 
pepper
1⁄2 cup heavy cream
1.  Roast the red peppers and 
coarsely chop. 
2.  In a large pot, heat the oil 
over medium-high heat. Add the carrot, celery, and onion. Cook until they begin to soften, about 5 minutes. Add the peppers, tomatoes, basil, vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a simmer, lower the heat, and simmer until the tomatoes begin to break down, 25 to 30 minutes.
3.  Remove from heat, transfer 
to a blender, in batches, and blend until smooth.
4.  Return the mixture to 
the pot, add the cream, and stir until combined. Serve, garnished with basil.2 1⁄2 hours
Serv es 5
Winner
194    ENTRÉES: VEGETARIANCHEF: Dave 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 4ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a gourmet entrée that can be reheated in the microwave.Lasagna with Two Sauces  
and a Colorful Vegetable Medley
Alfredo Sauce:
2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil3 roasted garlic cloves (see opposite)1  quart heavy cream
1⁄2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1  teaspoon dried basil1  teaspoon dried oregano
1⁄2 cup ﬁ  nely grated Parmesan cheese
1⁄4 cup ﬁ  nely grated Romano cheese
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Fire-Roasted Marinara Sauce:3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil6 roasted garlic cloves (see opposite)2 medium carrots, ﬁ  nely diced
1  medium white onion, ﬁ  nely diced
2 celery ribs, ﬁ  nely diced
1  shallot, ﬁ  nely diced
1  tablespoon fresh thyme leaves1  small bunch basil, cut into chiffonade
1⁄2 cup sherry
1⁄2 cup brandyTwo 28-ounce cans whole ﬁ  re-roasted 
tomatoes with juices
3 plum tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and 
diced
2 cups low-sodium vegetable stock1  tablespoon sugarSalt and freshly ground black pepper
Layering Ingredients:1  pound dried lasagna noodles, cooked 
al dente
8 ounces mozzarella cheese, coarsely 
grated (about 2 cups) 
8 ounces provolone cheese, coarsely 
grated (about 2 cups) 
1  cup ﬁ  nely grated Parmesan cheese
1⁄2 cup ﬁ  nely grated Romano cheese
Freshly ground black pepper
To Se rve:
Steamed white, orange, green, and purple 
cauliﬂ  ower ﬂ  orets
Fresh thyme sprigs for garnish
For the Alfredo Sauce:
 1. In a large saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the garlic and cook for 
2 minutes, breaking it apart with the back of a wooden spoon. Add the cream and 
bring to a simmer (do not boil). Add the nutmeg, basil, and oregano and cook until reduced by about half, about 45 minutes, watching the pot carefully so the cream doesn’t boil over.
 2. Lower the heat, add the grated cheeses, and stir until incorporated. Season with salt 
and pepper to taste. Set aside.
For the Fire-Roasted Marinara Sauce:
 1. While you’re making the Alfredo sauce, in a large saucepan, heat the oil over 
medium heat. Add the garlic and cook for 2 minutes, breaking it apart with the back of a wooden spoon. Add the carrots, onion, celery, and shallot and cook until the vegetables are caramelized, about 20 minutes. Add the thyme and basil and cook for 1 minute, stirring. 3 hours
Serv es 8 to 10
196   ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN 2. Add the sherry and brandy and cook for 5 minutes, scraping any browned bits from 
the bottom of the pan. Add the canned and fresh tomatoes, the stock, sugar, and 
salt and pepper to taste. Bring to a simmer, then reduce the heat and cook for 1 hour, stirring occasionally, to thicken and concentrate the ﬂ  avors. 
 3. Using an immersion blender, blend the sauce directly in the pot. Taste and adjust 
the seasonings, adding salt and pepper to taste as needed. Cook for an additional 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, then taste again and adjust the seasonings if needed. Set aside.
For Layering Ingredients:
 1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 2. Spread a thin layer of marinara sauce over the bottom of a 13-by-9-by-3-inch baking 
pan or lasagna pan. Follow with a layer of lasagna noodles, overlapping the noodles slightly. Spread a layer of Alfredo sauce over the noodles and top with a layer of marinara sauce. Sprinkle with some of the mozzarella, provolone, Parmesan, and Romano cheeses, followed by a dusting of pepper. 
 3. Repeat the layers, reserving some of the marinara sauce and some of the Parmesan 
and Romano cheeses to cover the ﬁ  nal layer of pasta.
 4. Cover loosely with aluminum foil and bake for 50 minutes, or until starting to 
bubble, then remove the foil and bake for another 15 to 20 minutes, or until heated through and bubbly on top. Remove from the oven and let stand for 10 minutes before serving. 
To Se rve:
  Cut into serving portions and serve with the cauliﬂ  ower alongside, garnished with 
the thyme sprigs.HOW TO: 
Roast Garlic
To roast a head of garlic, preheat 
the oven to 375°F. Peel off the 
papery outer layers of the garlic head and cut off the top 
1⁄2 inch. 
Place the garlic on a piece of alu-minum foil large enough to wrap the garlic. Drizzle with a little olive oil and sprinkle with salt. Wrap in the foil and roast for 30 
to 40 minutes, or until the garlic is soft enough to slide out of the skin when pressed.
ENTRÉES: VEGETARIAN     197GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE    “THIS WAS THE BEST WE HAD SEEN FROM DAVE. I THOUGHT IT HAD A LOT OF FLAVOR. 
I REALLY LIKED THE USE OF CAULIFLOWER TO ADD COLOR.”CHEF: Andrea 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 4
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a gourmet entrée that can be reheated in the microwave.Quinoa Pilaf  
with Curried Sweet Potato Mash
Curried Sweet Potato Mash:
2 large sweet potatoes3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, plus 
more for the pan
1  teaspoon mild curry powderSalt
1  tablespoon unsalted butter1  tablespoon fresh lemon juice, or to tasteQuinoa Pilaf:1 
1⁄3 cups quinoa
Salt 
1  tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil1  medium yellow onion, diced1  medium leek, cleaned and diced1  garlic clove, minced 2 vegetarian sausage links, diced4 shiitake mushrooms, thinly sliced2 tablespoons minced fresh sage, plus 
sage leaves for garnish
Freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 cup dried cranberries
For the Curried Sweet Potato Mash:
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Peel the sweet potatoes and cut into 1-inch cubes.  Put 
the sweet potato cubes in a large bowl and coat with the oil. Add the curry powder 
and salt to taste.  Place in a greased baking pan, cover with aluminum foil, and bake for 50 minutes, or until softened. Remove the foil and bake for an additional 10 min-utes, or until lightly browned on top.
 2. Remove the sweet potatoes from the oven and transfer to a food processor. Add the 
butter and lemon juice and process until smooth.
For the Quinoa Pilaf:
 1. While the sweet potatoes are roasting, rinse the quinoa until the water runs clear. 
Put the quinoa in a medium pot over medium heat and add 2 cups of boiling water. Add salt to taste, then reduce the heat, cover the pot, and cook for about 18 minutes, or until the water has been absorbed and the spiral germ separates from the grain. Set aside for 5 minutes, then ﬂ  uff the quinoa with a fork. Transfer to a large bowl.
 2. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the onion, leek, 
and garlic and sauté for about 5 minutes, or until softened. Add the sausage, mush-rooms, sage, and salt and pepper to taste and cook for about 5 minutes, or until the sausage is cooked through and the mushrooms have softened.  
 3. Add the cooked vegetables and dried cranberries to the quinoa and stir to combine.
To Se rve:
  Spoon the quinoa onto serving plates, along with the mashed sweet potatoes, and garnish with the sage leaves. Serve immediately. 1 hour, 15 minutes
Serv es 4
WHAT IS . . . 
Quinoa?
Quinoa (pronounced “KEEN-wah”), lately proclaimed as the “supergrain of the future,” has 
in fact been around since the times of the ancient Inca of South America, six thousand 
years ago. Quinoa was consid-ered the “mother grain”—the nutritional backbone to a rich and powerful civilization, and it is still an important food to the native people of Peru, Chile, and Bolivia. Recently it has made its way onto the menus of upscale restaurants, though health-conscious folk have been ben-eﬁ ting from its rich nutritional 
proﬁ le for some time now. 
Quinoa is low in carbohydrates, high in ﬁ  ber, and higher in pro-
tein than any other grain. In fact, it’s a complete protein in itself—a big plus for vegetarians. It has a light, slightly nutty taste and cooks up in under 20 minutes. Try it as an alternative to rice 
or pasta.
198    ENTRÉES: VEGETARIANYou would think the one basic piece 
of preparation chefs would do before 
going on Top Chef  would be, well, 
watching Top Chef . Nevertheless, 
some of the same culinary mistakes recur season after season. Here are eight of the biggest.They Oughta Know by Now
Taste 
your food.
You would think this could go with-
out saying; every season someone 
proves the contrary. A remarkable number of chefs could have saved themselves by sipping their soups and adding a little salt. 
200    THEY OUGHTA KNOW BY NOWThe power 
of one.
Chefs are always tempted to do “duets,” 
showcasing two techniques with the same ingredient, but one stellar dish will always beat two mediocre ones.Flame goes 
on, ﬂ  ame 
goes off.
It’s the most basic act in cooking: applying 
heat to something and removing it at the right time. So, let’s refresh: overcooked steak, bad; overcooked eggs, bad; under-cooked chicken, very, very bad. THEY OUGHTA KNOW BY NOW      201Even your 
dad could 
make one dessert.
“It boggles my mind that contestants 
don’t show up with at least one simple dessert in their back pocket,” says Tom Colicchio. That said, if you aren’t armed with a simple ﬂ  an or cake, and the chal-
lenge doesn’t require dessert, here’s an idea: don't make one. Gnocchi 
gno-gnos.
For whatever reason, these light, 
potato-ﬂ  our dumplings have nearly 
always fared poorly on Top Chef . 
Avoid, if possible. 
“Pack 
your kn…
zzzzzz....”
Try not to put the judges to sleep. 
As Anthony Bourdain says, “Do 
you really think Tom Colicchio 
needs to taste one more ﬁ  let 
mignon or tuna tartare?”Location, 
location, location.Not every dish suits every environ-
ment: pork belly might not braise well at altitude, vinaigrette “droplets” may ooze in the Hawaiian humidity, broc-colini may not hold up to an airplane oven. Point is, take a look around before you start cooking.
The icing 
on th e cake.
Your parents may be impressed by such 
luxe ingredients as foie gras, trufﬂ  es, and 
caviar. Tom, Gail, and Padma aren’t. If any-
thing, they’re likely to judge them with an even sharper critical eye. And while we’re at it, never ever use trufﬂ  e oil. “It should 
be banned,” says Colicchio.  CLAY
SANDEEMICAHCAMILLELIAJOEYSARA N.TREHOWIEC.J.SARA M.BRIANCASEYDALEHUNG
EPISODE 1 EPISODE 2 EPISODE 3 EPISODE 4 EPISODE 5 EPISODE 6 EPISODE 7Season 3: Elimination BracketEPISODE 8* EPISODE 9 EPISODE 10 EPISODE 11 EPISODE 12 EPISODE 13 EPISODE 14Winner of title “Top Chef” 
Winner of Elimination Challenge Winner of Quickﬁ  re 
Winner of both Quickﬁ  re and Elimination Challenges 
Contestant EliminatedNo one was eliminated
*Episode
Winner of Title “Top Chef” Winner of Elimination Challenge Winner of Quickﬁ  re 
Guest JudgeContestant Eliminated1
Season 3: Episode Guide 
Season 3
Here to Cook
After all the tumult of 
Season 2 (and the “4-Star 
All-Star Reunion”), Top 
Chef  was probably due for 
a more peaceful, mature 
regroup. 
Then again, maybe it was just the 
warmth and beauty of Miami that led to all the sunny vibes. Either way, the pack of chefs who debuted in South Florida was probably the most purely talented so far. Inevitably, in such a 
batch, there were surprising casualties (Lia, Tre) and contentious person-alities (Howie, Hung). Still, the ﬁ  nal 
three competitors—including winner Hung—all but crossed the ﬁ  nish line 
holding hands.First Impressions
Create an amuse-bouche using 
only existing appetizer food and plasticware.
Create a surf-and-turf dish using 
exotic proteins like buffalo, alligator, geoduck, and eel.
The contestants wield plastic cutlery and brave a safari-style surf and turf. Buddies Hung and Tre wow Bourdain with geoduck and ostrich, while Howie forgets his frog legs and Clay is sent home via Air Cambodia.
Chef and author 
Anthony Bourdain
ClayMicah
TreSunny Delights
Create a dish featuring Florida citrus.Create an upscale barbecue dish for a 
summer party.
After a hot day over the grill, Howie and Joey 
duke it out in the Stew Room. Micah snifﬂ  es 
into her barbecue but it’s Sandee who gets burned for “putting lipstick on a pig.”
Chef Norman 
Van Aken
SandeeHung
Brian
Family Favorites
Catch and cook a dish in 30 minutes 
using whatever shellﬁ  sh you can 
catch with one swipe of a ﬁ  sh net.
Turn traditional family favorites into 
healthier, more modern dishes for members of an Elks club.
Brian's winning streak makes up for his “dueling snake” debacle in the ﬁ  rst episode. 
At the Elks Lodge, most dishes are dead on arrival, but Micah’s meatloaf is inedible even with all the ketchup in America.
Chef Alfred 
Port ale
MicahBrian
HowieCooking by Numbers
Create an appetizer to pair with Bom-
bay Sapphire® mixed drinks.
In teams of three, prepare a tast-ing menu of trios around a central ingredient.
Casey aces the Quickﬁ  re with an off-the-cuff 
French toast and ﬁ  nds herself thrown into the 
dog pit when she joins Joey and Howie in the Elimination. Camille gets sent home, and for Hung, apparently sweetness doesn’t “always” go with creaminess.
Mixologist Jamie 
Walker and Chef 
Barton G. Weiss
 
CamilleCasey
LiaLatin Lunch
Create a course starting with a 
premade piecrust.
Prepare a classical Latin lunch for the 
cast and crew of the telenovela Dame 
Chocolate.
Joey, revealing he has some pastry experi-
ence, takes home the Quickﬁ  re, and his new 
buddy Howie impresses the actors with yet another pork dish. Lia serves up some subpar polenta and the judges say “adios.”
Chef Maria 
Frumkin
LiaJoey
Howie31 2
4 5Freezer Burn
Identify foods by taste or appearance 
in a culinary quiz.
Pair up and create Bertolli®-inspired 
Mediterranean entrées that will be 
frozen overnight.
Casey aces the pop quiz, showing big chops for a self-trained chef. Later, tempers ﬂ  are 
as the chefs make frozen dinners. C.J. and Tre freeze everything separately and win, and 
though Hung has this idea too, Joey, his part-ner, doesn’t get it and is sent home in tears.
Chef Rocco 
DiSpirito
JoeyCasey
C.J. and TreGuilty Pleasures
Make a mix-in for Cold Stone 
Creamery ice cream.
Create a snack for partiers at the 
Nikki Beach nightclub.
Another ice cream challenge, another round of bizarre ﬂ  avors. Staying traditional, Dale 
wins with a fruit cobbler. That night, the chefs get dolled up to go clubbing but serve late-night snacks instead. Tre’s shrimp steals the show, while Howie and Sara N. whine their way to the wrong end of the Judges’ Table.
Chef Govind 
Armstrong
Sara  N.Dale
TreRestaurant Wars
Prepare a burger for Red Robin’s line 
of “Adventuresome Burgers.”
Divide into two teams and turn an 
empty space into a restaurant in twenty-four hours.
In the Quickﬁ  re, C.J. pulls through with a sea-
food burger and gets to handpick his team for Restaurant Wars. Though he takes the best 
of the bunch (Tre, Brian, and Casey), they fail to make a good impression on the judges. Then again, so do their opponents.
Chef Daniel 
Boulud
No oneC.J.
No one
Second Helping
The two teams from the previous epi-
sode face off in a kitchen-skills relay.
Each team reopens their restaurant, 
this time offering at least two options for each course.
It's Restaurant Wars Redux as both teams get a second chance. Tom’s secret sommelier (Stephen, of course) may have helped Team Quatre focus on the food, while Team April sends out a few too many dud plates and Tre, April’s head chef, gets the axe.
Chef Geoffrey 
Zakarian
TreDale, Howie, Hung, and Sara  M.
Sara  M.Chef Overboard
Create a dish using only what you can 
ﬁ nd in a particular supermarket aisle.
Work together to cater an ultraexclu-
sive party thrown by Pure nightclub.
Hung lightens up a bit in the Quickﬁ  re, turn-
ing a couple of boxes of cereal into a psyche-delic Smurf village, while Howie strikes out. He gives up in the Aisle Trial and goes 0 for 2 on the boat. Though he tries to quit before he can be eliminated, the judges say “Sorry,” then toss him anyway.
Chef Michael 
Schwartz
HowieBrian
CaseySnacks on a Plane
Make Padma breakfast using only a 
blender and a small butane burner.
Devise a delicious entrée for Conti-
nental’s BusinessFirst service.
Oh, the infamous broccolini. The chefs head to New York City, but before they can even leave the airport, they have to prepare an al-ternative to that culinary punch line, airplane food. C.J. blows it with his roasted broccolini and is sent packing, but not before weather-ing some of Bourdain’s meanest digs yet.
Chef and author 
Anthony Bourdain
C.J.Hung
Casey
Manhattan Project
Re-create a special dish from New 
York’s famous Le Cirque restaurant.
Turn an onion, a potato, and a chicken 
into a world-class meal for the chefs 
at the French Culinary Institute.
After lunch with restaurateur Maccioni, Hung 
copies the meal without breaking a sweat. Later, faced with the simplest of ingredients, Hung’s classical training shines, while Sara M.’s dish leaves the judges unimpressed.
Restaurateur 
Sirio Maccioni, 
French Culinary 
Institute chefs
Sara  M.Hung
HungAspen Finale: Part 1
Cook a trout using only a frying pan 
and a camp stove for seafood expert Eric Ripert.
Prepare elk for hungry rodeo cowboys 
and cowgirls.
The chefs are whisked into the backcountry, 
given a ﬁ  sh and a fry pan, and told to impress 
the king of seafood. Brian ﬂ  ounders, and 
things only get worse with his mishmash of elk and half the pantry. The rodeo-goers are charmed by his cowpoke act, but the judges send him riding into the sunset.
Chef Eric Ripert
BrianCaseyDaleAspen Finale: Part 2
Prepare a three-course meal to be 
served to a table of luminaries from 
the culinary world.
In the Season 3 ﬁ  nale, the chefs get a little 
extra help from world-renowned chefs Rocco DiSpirito, Michelle Bernstein, and Todd English. Casey falls short of everyone’s expectations, while Dale and Hung, ﬁ  ring on 
all cylinders, go plate for plate. In the end, Hung’s passion ﬁ  nally emerges, winning over 
the judges, who crown him Top Chef.
Chefs Michelle 
Bernstein, 
Rocco DiSpirito, 
and Todd English
Casey and Dale  Hung6
1297 8
10 11
13 14top stats  
Age
30
Hometown
Pittsfield, MA
Currently
Traveling and opening  
a restaurant in New  
York City
Favorite piece of equipment
12-inch slicer
Chefs he most admires
My mother, Tran  
Thuong; Thomas Keller; 
and Ferran Adrià
Philosophy
“No mercy.”
Featured recipes
Steak and Eggs, p. 41
Tuna Tartare, p. 73
Sous-Vide Duck, p. 146
Black Chicken, p. 153
Chocolate Cakes, p. 230“ A great chef has 
to be smart, cre-
ative, and have a 
great palate, but 
he also needs the 
speed.”
huN g
206    HUNG HUYNHHung Huynh
SEASON 3: WINNER
WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 4 QUICKFIRES
In the generally sunny and friendly ensemble that made up 
Season 3’s contestants, Hung sometimes seemed like the only 
chef who remembered that this was a game you were sup-posed to try to win, not a chance to make new friends. 
Perhaps he learned something from watching his old culinary school buddy and fellow 
Las Vegan, Marcel. Driven by an inspiring immigrant narrative, Hung made it clear from 
day one that he was in Miami to win—even if that meant annoying some people with his conﬁ  dence or ignoring a spilled bottle of trufﬂ  e oil when everybody was running around 
barefoot. (After watching the episode, Hung now admits the spill was his fault.)  
 Even Hung’s biggest detractors had to be astonished by his technical skills, honed while 
working at Guy Savoy in Las Vegas. He could bone a chicken in seconds, whip up a killer 
sous vide, re-create a classic dish at Le Cirque, and even build a trippy Smurﬂ  ike village 
out of cereal. As for those who thought that lots of skill meant little heart, well, there were four ﬁ  nale judges who disagreed. And a triumphant Hung doesn’t apologize for any 
of his tactics. “I was there for one thing,” he says. “It wasn’t winning Fan Favorite.”
Sometimes it seemed like you really enjoyed annoying people. Was that your strategy? 
I didn’t plan it, but it became my strategy once I found out that I annoyed them. If they 
want to focus on me instead of on their own food, ﬁ  ne. Focus on me and screw up. 
So, you came in ready to be a hard ass?  
No mercy at all. I purposely separated myself from being close friends with anyone, in case I had to throw them under the bus. If I need to say something bad about someone’s dish, I wasn’t going to hesitate. There’s no friendship involved. It’s just skill and food. 
What was up with the nutty cereal landscape? 
That was the challenge where we had to cook from one aisle of the supermarket. I got coffee and cereal. I thought I’d just have a good time and give everybody a laugh. But the judge didn’t really get it. 
Was it hard waiting ﬁ  ve weeks after the ﬁ  nale to ﬁ  nd out who won? 
Oh man, I couldn’t sleep just thinking about it. But my gut feeling was that I killed it. Were you frustrated by the idea that your cooking didn’t have “soul” just because you 
were so technically good?  
That just doesn’t make sense to me. Passion is what drives me. It’s why I am what I am. I hope I got that across to America in the end.
HUNG HUYNH     207SHARPEN 
YOUR KNIVES
One of the more impressive 
moments in Top Chef history 
came during a Season 3 Quickﬁ  re 
when Hung was asked to butcher a tableful of chickens. Hung went to work in a blur of hands and blades, leaving even Tom Colicchio gaping. 
 Knife skills are essential to any 
cook, and the ﬁ  rst step is choos-
ing the right knife. Hung, being 
a bit of a maverick, says he uses a long-bladed slicing knife for most all tasks in the kitchen. It’s more traditional to employ a 12- or 14-inch classic chef’s knife. Whatever you choose, though, it should ﬁ  t comfortably in your 
hand. “It has to feel right: solid and not ﬂ  imsy,” Hung says. “You 
know it when you feel it. Like, ‘Oh, yeah. That’s right.’” 
 Also, learn to periodically sharpen your knives with a wet sharpening stone (a magnetic butcher’s steel is good for day-to-day maintenance). Remember, Hung says, “It’s easier to cut yourself with a dull knife than a sharp one.” 
TED ALLEN, JUDGE    “WHAT I LOVE ABOUT HUNG IS WHEN YOU SEE HIS 
EYES LIGHT UP WHEN HE HEARS WHAT THE CHALLENGE IS AND KNOWS 
EXACTLY HOW TO DO IT. HE’S TOTALLY PASSIONATE AND TOTALLY COM-MITTED, AND HE’S WORKED HIS ASS OFF. THERE’S A TON OF SOUL IN HIS FOOD. YOU CAN’T MAKE GOOD FOOD WITHOUT LOVING FOOD.”TOP STATS  
Age
34
Hometown
Chicago, IL
Currently
Opening Town and 
Country in Chicago, IL
Favorite piece of equipment
Tongs
Chefs he most admires
Thomas Keller, Daniel Boulud, David Bouley, and Julia Child
Philosophy
“A true chef will extend 
himself and take risks.”
Featured recipes
Seared Scallops, p. 72
Rack of Lamb, p. 91
Seared Elk Loin, p. 104
Meatballs, p. 149“You sit on the 
couch watching 
the show like, ‘Oh, I can do that.’ 
Well you know 
what? Ya can’t. It’s really hard.”
DALE
208    DALE LEVITSKIDale Levitski
When we ﬁ  rst met Dale, the goofy, self-proclaimed “Big Gay 
Chef” with the silly mohawk, few would have guessed he’d 
become one of the more moving stories produced in three years of 
Top Chef .   
Burned out and depressed by the closing of the restaurant where he had once been 
chef, Dale hadn’t even cooked professionally for more than a year before the Miami competition began. Over the course of the show, we watched him slowly regain his foot-ing, rediscover what he liked about cooking, and then, surprisingly, become a serious contender for the 
Top Chef crown. Dale was felled by one bad lobster dish but, charac-
teristically, he says the win would have only been icing on the cake; he’d already gotten what he wanted out of the competition. Still, he adds, “I was just hitting my stride. One more week and I would have won the whole thing.”
Why were you in such a bad place before the competition? 
It was a combination of everything—all four walls of my life crashing in. I had completely lost all focus on what I was doing in life and why.
Is it hard to work your way through something like that while being ﬁ  lmed for 
national television? 
It may have actually been an advantage. The other chefs had all kinds of problems deal-ing with the isolation and the stress of living in the house. I was battling a pretty severe depression; I wanted to be taken out of my life and put in a little box where cooking is all that would matter. It was like chef rehab for me. 
Some fans thought you Season 3 guys liked each other too much.
I’m very proud of our group for doing that. Everybody has rivalries and a sense of competi-
tiveness, but we all agreed from day one not to get into the petty stuff that makes good TV. 
Were you bummed out to learn you weren’t the only mohawk on the show?
It was hilarious when Sandee showed up that ﬁ  rst day. We were both like, “Oh, sure. All 
the gay people have mohawks.”Have you registered BigGayChef.com yet? 
No, but an old friend from high school showed up at my restaurant with a chef’s toque that had “Big Gay Chef” embroidered on it. I’ve gotten a lot of ﬂ  ak for using “the gay 
angle.” The chef I was working for wanted to know why I mentioned it when it doesn’t matter. I told her it did matter in the gay community. I felt I had a responsibility to proudly represent who I was. SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 14: “ASPEN FINALE: PART 2”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 2 QUICKFIRES
TED ALLEN, JUDGE     “LET’S NOT FORGET, DALE DIDN’T GO TO CULINARY 
SCHOOL, AND HE MADE IT TO NUMBER TWO BEHIND HUNG. AND JUST 
BARELY BEHIND HIM. THAT’S A REAL ACHIEVEMENT. DALE ALREADY HAD THE RESPECT OF REALLY STRONG CHEFS IN CHICAGO. NOW HE’S GOT THAT MEASURE OF RESPECT FROM MILLIONS OF OTHER PEOPLE.”
210    CASEY THOMPSON“Our season had a 
better head on its 
shoulders, and we were really in it for the food.”
CASEY
TOP STATS  
Age
30
Hometown
Cedar Hill, TX
Currently
Executive chef at Shinsei 
Restaurant in Dallas, TX
Favorite piece of equipment
A blender
Chefs she most admires
Thomas Keller, Joel Robuchon, Rick Bayless, 
and Mario Batali
Philosophy
“Cooking technique 
under pressure is a true gift. If you’re practiced and experienced, then it will go easily for you.”
Featured recipes
Beef Carpaccio, p. 71
Veal Medallions, p. 114
Coq au Vin, p. 140Meatballs, p. 149Casey Thompson
CASEY THOMPSON     211SEASON 3: FAN FAVORITE
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 14, “ASPEN FINALE: PART 2”WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 3 QUICKFIRES
Every season has one: the chef you root for, who’s doing great 
week after week, who looks like she might be going all the 
way—and then who, inexplicably, without warning, makes some fatal error. 
Actually, Season 3 had two such contestants: Tre and, even more heartbreaking, Casey. 
But the blonde Texan’s unfortunate exit at the Aspen ﬁ  nale couldn’t erase a truly impres-
sive showing over the ﬁ  rst twelve weeks of the competition. With style, verve, and what 
the judges repeatedly referred to as “soul,” Casey was a formidable opponent. And she came to represent the grown-up, friendly side of 
Top Chef  that deﬁ  ned Season 3. She 
seemed to get along with everybody, especially Dale, with whom she still speaks on the phone at least once a day. “She is just the most amazing person in the world,” Dale says. “You didn’t even get to see how funny and cool she was.” Whatever we did see, it was 
enough to allow Casey to steal the title of Fan Favorite from Dale himself.
What has life been like since the show? 
Insane! 
Top Chef  has brought many fans into the restaurant. They come right into the 
kitchen and say, “We wish you would have won.” We’ve actually had to have the staff talk them out of being upset because I can’t come out to the table when I’m on the line, 
cooking their food. 
When did you start to get the feeling that you had a shot at winning the competition? 
It took me a few weeks to get into the groove. I guess it was the Bombay Sapphire
® 
Quickﬁ  re that I really nailed ﬁ  rst. Everybody was asking, “How’d you do this?” And I 
started to think, Hmm, it’s pretty cool to win. I kind of want to do this again!
You seemed like you got along with everybody. 
Walking in there, it’s like the ﬁ  rst day of school. You’re the new kid and you don’t know 
anybody. In the beginning, I have to say, I didn’t like Hung and Howie. I thought they were 
just big jerks. But then I got to know them and they’re really nice guys. 
What happened to you in the ﬁ  nale?
I knew right away that it wasn’t one of my most successful dishes. I just knew it. But then 
we went in front of the judges and they always say something good and bad about every dish. I walked away thinking, Well, Casey, you’re always your own worst critic. Maybe you 
still have a shot. So it was kind of cruel to come back, ﬁ  ve weeks later, and have to sit 
there and watch the show live. With my family there, too. 
You handled it with a lot of class.
That makes me feel good. Because, believe me, walking out there with a straight face 
was one of the hardest things I’ve ever had to do. 
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGE     “IN THE END, CASEY REALIZED HER STRENGTH. 
SHE’S A CHEF WHO NEEDS TO ROLL SOMETHING OVER IN HER BRAIN, TRY 
IT OUT FIFTEEN DIFFERENT WAYS, REFINE IT, AND THEN SHE’LL NAIL IT.”Brian Malarkey
SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 13, “ASPEN FINALE: PART 1”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 2 QUICKFIRES
“My strategy was to play it straight and not get into any kind 
of drama. Just cook good food,” Brian says. “It was kind of the Sam approach from Season 2.”   
Perhaps, but while Sam made it to the ﬁ  nal four while generating reams of blog heat, 
Brian’s strategy got him to the same place without, well, anybody really noticing. Friendly 
and ﬁ  lled with smiles, Brian made it almost to the end without putting his neck too 
far out on the line. Still, there was no denying that his big ﬂ  avors and ﬂ  air for seafood 
pleased the judges. And who would have guessed tha t he’d have one of the bawdiest 
backstage stories of them all? 
What surprised you about your time on Top Chef ?  
I’d watched the previous seasons and I’m a competitive guy. I love to compete. But I 
remember that ﬁ  rst day, we were all so happy to meet each other and then Clay got 
eliminated in that totally brutal way. I mean, they really demoralized him. And, you know, I was in the bottom three too that night. That’s when I thought, God, this show is really cutthroat and scary! It kind of makes you lose heart for a while.  
What did you do wrong on that challenge?   
I cooked snake and eel on that one. I thought I’d come out of the gates really adventur-ous and try to show everybody that I had it going on. But I ran out of time. I wasn’t used to working with the clock. And then Tre won with a real simple risotto. I was like, Damn. They want 
less, not more.  
Did the notion that you could only cook seafood bug you?   I enjoyed it. Even after Tom Colicchio told me to branch out, what did I cook? Sea-food, seafood, seafood. We were in Miami in the middle of a hot and humid summer, surrounded by the best seafood in the world, and what was Howie cooking? Pork. I used the best ingredients available. 
So, why don’t you tell me the story of what happened in the bathroom at the French 
Culinary Institute? 
I might as well, because Dale promised he’d tell everybody. I had a very upset stomach—you know, you’re on a crazy schedule, stressed out, it happens. I go to the bathroom and my backside is kind of hurting. And I see this spray bottle of baby powder and I think, Great, this will help. So I spray a little on and it burns like hell! I looked at it again and it was baby powder–scented air freshener. I have ﬁ  ve minutes until I have to cook my chal-
lenge and I’m sitting in the sink, trying to wash off. I told Dale not to tell anybody, but it spread like wildﬁ  re. I was just burning up.
212    BRIAN MALARKEYTOP STATS  
Age
34
Hometown
Bend, OR
Currently
Executive chef at The 
Oceanaire Seafood Room in San Diego, CA
Chefs he most admires
Bernard Guisse, Alan Gerrard, and Marcus Samuelson
Philosophy
“The less you do with 
seafood, the better it is.”
Featured recipes
Pheasant’s Pie, p. 143
Chicken Rigatoni, p. 152Seafood Sausage, p. 172“I don’t back down. 
I go for it, put 
myself out there, and see how it turns out.”
BRIANC.J. Jacobsen
SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 11, “SNACKS ON A PLANE”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 1 QUICKFIRE
Go ahead and pick your pun: C.J. towered over his competi-
tion during Season 3. He cast a long shadow over the Top Chef  
kitchen. Beating him was a tall order.  
You can bet that the six-foot-eight Southern Californian chef has heard all the height 
jokes you can come up with. But C.J. turned out to be a lot more than just the “tall guy.” 
For one thing, he quickly established himself as a kind of class clown and morale booster 
in the Miami loft. (His BLTs were legendary, if he says so himself.) Despite his charm, C.J. proved a crafty and talented competitor. Perhaps his most important decision was to cede control of the kitchen during Restaurant Wars to Tre—leaving Tre vulnerable and, ultimately, on his way home. C.J. dodged that bullet, but there was a deadly pile of overcooked broccolini waiting just a few episodes away to do him in. 
What was the hardest part of living in the house?  
Hung takes exceptionally long showers in the morning—like, thirty-ﬁ  ve minutes. And 
Joey snores so badly we made him sleep, not only out of the room, but on the far side of the living room, as far away as possible. 
Any behind-the-scenes romance?  
People say to me, “Oh, man. You had all these hot chicks living in the house. How come 
nobody banged anybody?” Let me tell you, for the ﬁ  rst two weeks you’re so stressed out 
you can’t do anything. And after twenty-ﬁ  ve days or so, all sexuality disappears. 
Did you get a lot of hate mail when Tre was eliminated? People generally liked both of us, I think. In the end, I would have been remiss to name 
myself head chef. It wasn’t the best way for the team to win the competition. Tre had so much more experience. I don’t know why I get so much crap for not doing anything when I made four sauces and helped with everything. At the same time, in retrospect, it was kind of an ingenious move, delegating to Tre, because I managed to stick around. 
How much is being tall a handicap? 
It doesn’t help, that’s for sure. Everything in a professional kitchen is designed for, like, a ﬁ ve-foot-seven Oaxacan guy. By the end, I thought that the 
Top Chef  producers were just 
trying to get rid of me. They put me on a boat. They put me on a plane. I was like, “OK! Enough! I’ll screw up the broccolini already!”
C.J. JACOBSEN     213TOP STATS  
Age
32
Hometown
El Toro, CA
Currently
Cooking for his own ca-
tering company, Redwood Cuisine, in Venice, CA
Chefs he most admires
Mario Batali, Mark Peel, and Nancy Silverton
Philosophy
“Don’t freak out, just do your best.”
Featured recipes
Crêpes, p. 40
Parmesan Linguine, p. 144
Burger, p. 166“I came down with 
cancer. I’m totally 
in remission . . . I’ve got a false testicle, and I’m ready to cook.”
C.J.TOP STATS  
Age
31
Hometown
Miami, FL
Currently
Opening Bulldog in 
Miami, FL
Chefs he most admires
Thomas Keller, Gray Kunz, and Eric Ripert
Cookbooks in his collection
More than 300
Philosophy
“I cook and I cook. I’ll make it one way, I’ll make it another way, I’ll make it ten different ways until I come up with a dish that I like.”
Featured recipes
Pork Shoulder, p. 97 
Trufﬂ  e Burger, p. 102
Pork Chops, p. 113SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 10, “CHEF OVERBOARD”WINS: 2 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 1 QUICKFIRE
“You son of a bitch!” Those were the words of guest judge 
Anthony Bourdain in the very ﬁ  rst episode of Season 3, when 
Howie quoted Bourdain to Bourdain as a defense for why he 
didn’t get his Elimination Challenge dish plated in time.   
The quick thinking saved Howie that da y, but there was still a rough road ahead for 
the bull-necked, perpetually unhappy-looking Miami native with the Brooklyn accent. 
His style rubbed plenty of fellow contestants the wrong way, especially when he helped get Sara Nguyen sent home. (To be fair, Howie seemed almost as miserable about the turn of events as Sara did.) By the end of his run, Howie seemed in real danger of implo-sion. He failed to turn in a Quickﬁ  re dish and then attempted to fall on his own chef’s 
knife and pull out of the competition. The judges refused the resignation but sent him packing anyway.  
What made you want to go on 
Top Chef ?   
I’ve been in this business long enough to know that you can make the best food in the 
world but it doesn’t matter if nobody knows you’re there. This was a chance to get known on a national stage. And I was a fanatic for the show. I’d watched every episode of the two other seasons, some of them more than once. 
Did that help your performance?  
In hindsight, maybe that was a disadvantage for me. I might have overthought things. Like the ﬁ  rst day, when I couldn’t get my food onto the plate. I was trying to be clever 
and make sure nothing got cold. But it’s very different watching it on TV and being there. You know, chefs are always saying, “Two minutes. I’ll get it done in two minutes.” But you 
don’t really know what two minutes means until you’re on the clock.
What was the most difﬁ  cult thing for you?  
The biggest challenge for me was to not get frustrated and aggravated. That’s where it’s 
won and lost in a lot of ways. I kind of felt from the beginning that maybe some people 
didn’t think I should be there. I’m a reactive person. I come in trying to be cordial, but if people don’t like me I’m not going to like them. There was one time where Sandee and I were the two who were going to be eliminated. When we walked back into the Stew Room, everybody started clapping because they thought Sandee was staying. Nobody 
clapped for Howie to stay. 
What happened at the very end?  
At a certain point you just get tired of standing up there getting ridiculed by these people, even if they’re the best chefs in the world. And they had eliminated Tre, who was really my only friend in the house, so I was just tired of it. Plus, I was trying to protect Brian, who was the captain of our team.
Do you think all the attention people paid to your sweating was unfair? 
It was just ridiculous. The reality is that if you think you can go into any kitchen, espe-cially in South Florida, and ﬁ  nd chefs who aren’t sweating, you’re crazy.
214    HOWIE KLEINBERGHowie Kleinberg
SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 12, “MANHATTAN PROJECT”WINS: 1 ELIMINATION CHALLENGE, 1 QUICKFIRE
Season 3 of Top Chef was the “Season of the Two Mohawks” 
(Dale and Sandee) and the “Season of the Two Saras” (M. and 
N.). Of the two, it was Sara Mair who made the more distin-guished mark, lasting through Miami, surviving the Newark Airport challenge, and making it to New York City before ﬁ  nally 
falling at the French Culinary Institute. 
A Jamaican of Portuguese, Scottish, Welsh, and French descent who has worked as 
a sous-chef to Miami’s Michelle Bernstein, Sara is a walking embodiment of how inter-national and cross-cultural ﬁ  ne cooking has become. As if more evidence was needed, 
she plans to open a cheese dairy on her home island, using European techniques learned on a farm in New Jersey. 
How big is 
Top Chef   in Jamaica?  
It’s on in certain areas, but it’s not a big deal. In the States, I get recognized. People want 
autographs and pictures and all that stuff. Down here, people don’t care as much. I didn’t know anything about the show before I went on. 
Do you think that helped or hurt you?  
I didn’t overanalyze things like some people. I didn’t know what to expect, so I just pre-pared myself to take it day by day and do the best I could. That probably helped. 
Well, you made it pretty far for someone who hadn’t watched the show. 
I did. I think my downfall was that I overdid it. Jamaican food is a mix of so many inﬂ  u-
ences—Chinese, Indian, Jamaican, African, Spanish, English, all of them. It’s fusion. 
I didn’t simplify that for my dish, so I don’t think it was classic enough for the judges. 
What’s the funniest thing that happened but didn’t appear on-screen?
One night we came home and all the girls decided to have a “spa day.” We made masks from oatmeal and avocado and eggs and all this other stuff and then we plastered all the boys’ faces with it. We had a camera with us, but something happened to the tape, I think. It was hilarious sitting there with all the boys and their green faces.
SARA MAIR     215TOP STATS  
Age
35
Hometown
Kingston, Jamaica
Currently
Working at Island 
Outpost in Jamaica, 
developing a Jamaican TV show called 
The 
Local Gourmet , and 
doing research for her cheese farm
Favorite comfort food
Chicken fricassee and oxtail
Chefs she admires
Michelle Bernstein and Cindy Hudson
Philosophy
“My cooking is fusion. I rethink classical dishes.”
Featured recipes
Eggs in a Hole, p. 42
Halibut, p. 163Chiles Rellenos, p. 188Sara Mair
TOP STATS  
Age
26
Hometown
Santa Monica, CA
Currently
Opening Town and 
Country in Chicago, IL
Chefs she most admires
Eric Ripert, Joel Robuchon, Anita Lo, 
and Ferran Adrià
Favorite cooking show 
(besides Top Chef )
Iron Chef , the 
Japanese edition
Philosophy
“I make simple, elegant food that isn’t too wishy-washy or highbrow. Food for everybody.”
Featured recipe
Chicken Rigatoni, p. 152Sara Nguyen
SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 7 , “GUILTY PLEASURES”WINS: 0 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 0 QUICKFIRES
Some contestants on Top Chef  are remembered for a signa-
ture dish. Others are remembered for their crazy personalities, 
or their grit or evolution over the long, thirteen-week season.
Sara N. will always be remembered for one facial expression—the mask of misery and 
rage she wore upon being told that the gang wasn’t going out, as promised, to sample 
some of Miami’s nightlife but instead was going to face an Elimination Challenge involv-ing serving late-night partygoers from a “roach coach.” That face reappeared, bathed in tears at Judges’ Table, where Howie infamously threw her under the bus. This is a shame, since Sara was actually a mostly lighthearted and talented chef. And she didn’t do half-bad for a person who didn’t even know what the show was until she was practi-
cally on it.
You’d never watched 
Top Chef . So how did you wind up on the show?  
One night in New York, my girlfriend and I went out to a club and we happened to meet a 
bunch of people from Season 2—Sam, Ilan, and Josie. I left early, like three in the morn-ing, but my girlfriend stayed. The next afternoon she came over and said, “Get ready. They’re holding auditions right now.”
And you went?  
Yeah. It supposedly ended at 4:00 and we got there at 3:30. Everybody was squished 
into the vestibule of the French Culinary Institute, and the producers said that anybody not inside the doors should go home. I thought, Great. I’m hungover and starving. Let’s go. But my girlfriend pushed us in through the door, just as they came up and locked it behind us. So, I had no choice!
What happened the night you were eliminated?   
When they said there was no challenge, I remember going up to everybody saying, “Is this for real? Are you sure?” We had been working so hard for three weeks and I was really excited to go out. In the limo, I drank half a bottle of wine. I was really fooled. 
Do you think it was unfair to the women chefs?  
I do, because we dressed to go out. I don’t have a problem going out and dressing in a way that gets male attention. But it’s the last thing I want in the kitchen. 
And what happened with Howie? 
In retrospect, I would have done the same thing he did. I should have thrown him under the bus. But I really just couldn’t stop crying. I was shaking beneath my clothes. I wish I had been better able to defend myself. But at the reunion, Howie came in and we talked. He said he had been so distressed about seeing me again and felt so bad. I gave him a hug. He’s such a great guy. He really is. 
Did you and Hung ever bond over your Vietnamese heritage?  
I grew up understanding Vietnamese and he’s ﬂ  uent, of course, so he would say things to 
me behind people’s backs. About their food. Like, “Uck, that smells.” But then he started to get a little crazy, so I sort of kept my distance.
216    SARA NGUYEN
TOP STATS  
Age
30
Hometown
Duncanville, TX
Currently
Working as a private chef 
in Dallas, TX
Favorite piece of equipment
A passionate staff
Chefs he most admires
Christopher Lee, 
Thomas Keller, and Andrew Carmellini
Philosophy
“Make it nice or make it twice.”
Featured recipes
Shrimp, p. 93
Linguine, p. 144Ostrich Fillet, p. 150Tre Wilcox III
TOM COLICCHIO, HEAD JUDGE     “I GOT A SENSE FROM THE OTHER CON-
TESTANTS THAT HE WAS CLEARLY ONE OF THE GUYS TO BEAT. I KNEW 
GETTING RID OF HIM WAS GOING TO BE TOUGH, BUT IT WAS THE RIGHT DECISION THAT NIGHT. WE CAN’T MAKE DECISIONS BASED ON WHETHER OR NOT THE BLOGGERS ARE GOING TO BEAT US UP.”SEASON 3
ELIMINATED: EPISODE 9, “SECOND HELPING”WINS: 3 ELIMINATION CHALLENGES, 0 QUICKFIRES
Right now, somewhere in America, there is a TV fan who is still 
shocked to have learned that Bennie Junnie “Tre” Wilcox III 
was eliminated at all—let alone so early—from Top Chef . Tre’s 
fate was the strongest evidence that Top Chef  is indeed a col-
lection of individual competitions, not a cumulative event.  
Anybody can fall after an unfortunate night, and that’s just what happened to Tre when 
he took on the task of being his team’s head chef during Restaurant Wars. A proud son of Texas, brought down by a lumpy bread pudding. In fact, Tre didn’t do too badly for a guy who had barely watched 
Top Chef before actually appearing on it; he only got cable a 
week before reporting for duty in Miami.
You didn’t really know what you were getting yourself into, did you?  
Not really. When they called and asked if I wanted to be on the show, it was busy in the 
kitchen and I said, “I’ll have to think about it.” The casting woman was like, “There are people who would jump across the Grand Canyon to get on this show.” I told her that might be, but I wasn’t ready to say yes or no right then. But I love to compete. I’m a competitor.
Did you realize that you’d have to live with all these other people? 
I had some idea that the contestants roomed together. That wasn’t a big deal to me. I grew up in a military family, and that training kicked in: you’ve got your bed and your suitcase and you adapt. And you try to be sociable to people, accept them as they are because you can’t change them. Howie is a good example; you’ve got to take Howie as he is. We still keep in touch.
Did you realize that you were a big fan favorite? 
I started getting all these emails from aggravated fans: “You were robbed.” “I’m not watching anymore.” People still come into the restaurant saying that.
So what happened? 
It was just a bad day. A very bad day. I deﬁ  nitely stuck my neck out, you know? Maybe I 
bit off more than I could chew, in terms of knowing that I would either win with what I did 
or get sent home. I told my team that going into it. I’ve made a million bread puddings. It’s a great dessert. But the clock just ate me up. That’s the way it goes.
TRE WILCOX     217
Clay Bowen Sandee Birdson g Micah Edelstein
“There are some 
people here that 
probably will do anything to win, and I’m not like that.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 3, “Family 
Favorites”
Micah started out with 
guns blazing, taking home the very ﬁ  rst Quickﬁ  re 
and just missing a win at the barbecue party. But her whining in the kitchen seemed excessive (at least to Hung), and the judges weren’t happy with all her 
kvetching about 
ketchup .“This is totally 
‘Chef Camp.’ In 
two nights I’ve 
learned more than I’ve learned in a year.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 2, “Sunny 
Delights” 
A Southern soul food 
kinda gal  with no formal 
training, Sandee was a Sea-
son 3 wild card. It’s a shame she left over some bad barbecue, but maybe the house was only big enough for one mohawk.“Hell, I’m from 
Mississippi. Pick 
it up and eat that son of a bitch!”
BIO BITE  
Packed his knives 
Episode 1, “First 
Impressions”
This good ol’ boy from 
Mississippi wasn’t nuts like Ken, or a newbie like Suyai, he was just . . . in a little over his head. With his 
aw-shucks charm , 
you couldn’t help but feel a little bad for the guy, even though his leathery wild boar must have been tough to stomach.
218    SEASON 3
Camille Becerra Lia Bardeen Joey Paulino
“With me, to get a 
point across, you 
gotta get a little aggressive.”
BIO BITE  
Packed his knives 
Episode 6, “Freezer 
Burn”
Joey was a study in con-
trasts. The judges brought this sensitive tart-
maker  to tears, but then 
again, he was one of the only other chefs to stand up to Howie’s bullying. Joey had a big heart, but that doesn’t help when you’re trying to reheat bad pasta.
Featured recipe
Trio of Tarts, p. 226“I guess I didn’t 
really under-
stand how com-plex franks and beans are.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 5, “Latin 
Lunch”
Asweet-faced sous 
chef  from New York’s 
Jean-Georges, Lia left the 
kitchen much too soon. Her early elimination over a plate of bad polenta was almost as shocking as Tre’s four episodes later. 
Everyone, including Padma, 
thought she’d go much farther—Padma says Lia’s elimination was one of the hardest to take.
Featured recipe
Poached Shrimp, p. 86“I learned a lot 
and I had fun 
doing it. That’s what cooking’s all about.”
BIO BITE  
Packed her knives 
Episode 4, “Cooking 
by Numbers”
Camille ﬂ  ew under the radar 
for most of Season 3, but 
that’s not to say she didn’t know how to whip up a top quality meal. Her food, though, was 
a little too
soft-spoken —ﬂ avoring 
with tea is a neat idea, but Chef Alfred Portale wasn’t amused.
SEASON 3     219
After all the trickery and plot twists 
and creative challenges Top Chef   contes-
tants endure, there can be nothing more 
relieving, and more nerve-wracking, than 
these words: “Make us the best meal of your life.” Welcome to the 
Top Chef   ﬁ nale. Top Chef Finales
Ilan’s Winning Menu 
1ST COURSE
Pincho of Pan Con Tomate with 
Angulas, Oestra Caviar and Tomatillos
2ND COURSE
Macadamia Nut Gazpacho with 
Pan-Roasted Moi
3RD COURSE
Seared Squab with Foie Gras, Shrimp, 
Braised Leeks, and Lobster Sauce
4TH COURSE
Braised and Grilled Beef Short Rib 
with Mushrooms and Romesco Sauce 
5TH COURSE
Tangelo Soup with Hawaiian Fruit, 
Surinam Cherry Sorbet, and Bay 
Leaf FritterHarold’s Winning Menu 
1ST COURSE
Seared Diver Scallop with Blood 
Orange and Fennel Salad
2ND COURSE
Olive-Oil Poached Bass
3RD COURSE
Pan-Roasted Quail with Herb 
Spaetzle, Cherries, and Foie Gras
4TH COURSE
Duo of Beef with Kobe Strip Loin 
and Braised Kobe Short Ribs with 
White Polenta
5TH COURSE
Fig Tart with Cheeses 
Hung’s Winning Menu 
1ST COURSE
“Fish & Chips” Hamachi, Potatoes, 
Olive Oil, and Tomato Vinaigrette
2ND COURSE
Shrimp with Palm Sugar, Cucumber 
Salad, and Coconut Foam
3RD COURSE
Sous-Vide Duck with Trufﬂ  e-
Scented Broth
4TH COURSE
Molten Chocolate Cakes with 
Vanilla Crème Fraîche, Raspberry 
Coulis, and Nougatine Tuiles
220    TOP CHEF FINALES1
32SEASON 1 FINALE      2211. Finalists Harold and Tiffani 
are joined by the their ﬁ  nale 
sous-chefs and former rivals, Lee Anne, Miguel, Stephen, and Dave. 2. Season 1 ﬁ  nale judges: Chef 
Hubert Keller, host Katie Lee Joel, Head Judge Tom Colicchio, and Judge Gail Simmons.3. Tension in the kitchen.4. Tiffani concedes the 
Top 
Chef   title. 3 41 2
There was no question that two deeply worthy chefs made it 
to the ﬁ  nal round of the ﬁ  rst ﬁ nale, held in Las Vegas. 
Both Tiffani and Harold were insanely talented, no-nonsense cooks, ready to wow 
the judges’ panel. In order to taste both contestants’ food, the judges had to start early: “We woke up at 6:30 a.m. and ate our ﬁ  rst ﬁ ve-course meal starting at 9 a.m.,” Gail 
Simmons remembers. “Then we had a break and ate another at 2 p.m.” If 
Top Chef   is 
always divided between the chefs’ performance in the kitchen and their relationships with other contestants outside of it, this was the ﬁ  rst time that the connection between 
the two became clear. Tiffani had sowed ill will throughout the competition and she reaped her biggest detractor, Dave Martin, as a ﬁ  nale assistant. Dave and Stephen 
showed up hungover and less than motivated to help their captain steal the prize. In spite of this, Tiffani opted to cook two dishes per course—a huge gamble considering what was at stake. Meanwhile, Harold, ably supported by Miguel and Lee Anne, turned out a Kobe beef dish that Simmons still describes as among the best she’s had on the show.Season 1 Finale3 41 2
222    SEASON 2 FINALE1. The four ﬁ  nalists arrive in 
Hawaii. 2. The judges enjoy a 
traditional Hawaiian feast. 3. Ilan and his ﬁ  nale sous-chefs, Elia 
and Betty, plan the winning meal. 4. Marcel and his ﬁ  nale sous-
chefs, Sam and Michael, check out the local produce.It is a reality-television cliché to say, “You couldn’t have 
scripted this!” But it’s hard not to think just that about 
Top Chef ’s Season 2 ﬁ  nale. 
Here, after twelve competitions, were the cast’s two most bitter rivals—personally, 
stylistically, and gastronomically. It would be Foam vs. Fideos. Mousse-do vs. Faux-hawk. Outcast vs. Popular Guy. Marcel vs. Ilan. Part one of the ﬁ  nale in Hawaii was hardly less 
dramatic, ending with the dismissal of Sam Talbot and Elia Aboumrad. Eventually, Marcel learned that if you live by molecular gastronomy, you can die by molecular gastronomy. The Hawaiian humidity doomed his vinaigrette “droplets” and left him with a boring salad as a second course. Meanwhile, Ilan’s macadamia nut gazpacho was a triumph and it was he who got the ﬁ  nal smirk. Season 2 FinaleFINALES      223
3 41 2
SEASON 3 FINALE      2231. Finalists Hung, Casey, and 
Dale pick their ingredients. 2. Judge Padma Lakshmi gets in the spirit. 3. Chef Eric Ripert and Head Judge Tom Colicchio taste the offerings. 4. Culinary 
producer and former contestant Lee Anne Wong sets out the ﬁ nale ingredients. Season 3 featured a trio of ﬁ  nalists: Dale, Hung, and Casey. 
Also a ﬁ  rst, the three gathered atop a wooded Aspen, Colorado mountain to serve their 
dishes head to head—appetizer vs. appetizer, meat vs. meat, and so on. Each of the 
chefs was paired with a celebrity “sous-chef” who was allowed to help with prep but not give any advice. The ﬁ  rst shocker was Casey’s big ﬁ  zzle. Despite her partner Mi-
chelle Bernstein’s most aggressive eye-rolls, she chose to braise pork belly—a stretch anywhere, given the allotted time, but culinary suicide in the thin air of Colorado. “I was surprised she didn’t get the hint. I have a very expressive face,” Bernstein says. The other 
surprise (though maybe it shouldn’t have been by that point) was Dale. His scallop dish and lamb with eggplant earned the highest praise Tom Colicchio may have ever given: “These are dishes you should carry with you for the rest of your life.” Sadly for Dale, Hung 
got similarly lavish praise for his sous-vide duck. With the contestants tied at two courses each, it came down to a classic 
Top Chef  battle between ambition and execution: Dale’s 
fanciful but failed lobster vs. Hung’s excellent but safe chocolate cake. In the end, the start-to-ﬁ  nish excellence of Hung’s meal won the day.Season 3 FinaleDessert
230Joey’s  Trio of Tarts
Berry Cream, Roasted Mango Puree, and Warm Apple Compote 
Marcel’s  Potato Cannoli
with Coffee Whipped Cream and Chocolate Mousse 
Marcel’s  Blini with Kona Coffee “Caviar” 
and Hawaiian Chocolate Mousse 
Hung’s  Molten Chocolate Cakes
with Vanilla Crème Fraîche, Raspberry Coulis, and Nougatine Tuiles 
Harold’s  Fig Tart with Cheeses 
Cliff’s  Marshmallow and Cookie Ice Cream 
Richard’s Banana Scallops, Banana 
Guacamole
and Chocolate Ice Cream  226
228
229
230
233
234
235226240236233
Brian H.’s  Strawberry Apple Crisp 
with Hazelnut Whipped Cream
Miguel’s  The Total Orgasm 
Lemon Pastry Puffs, Tapioca Pillows, and Cold Hot-Chocolate Shots 
Elia’s  Low-Fat Berry Cheesecake 236 
238
240226    DESSERTCHEF: Joey 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 5
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a course starting with a premade piecrust.Trio of Tarts
Berry Cream, Roasted Mango Puree, and Warm Apple Compote
Tart Shells:
Two 9-inch frozen pie shells
All-purpose ﬂ  our for rolling
Berry Mini Tarts:
1⁄2 cup balsamic vinegar
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup seedless raspberries
1⁄2 cup seedless blackberries
1⁄2 cup chopped strawberries
1⁄2 cup blueberries
3 tablespoons light brown sugar
2 teaspoons Grand Marnier®
2 tablespoons sour cream2 tablespoons cream cheese, softened
Mango Mini Tarts:
1⁄2 cup port
10 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
1  ounce crystallized ginger, diced (about 
1⁄4 cup)2 cups diced mango (from about 2 medium 
mangoes)
1⁄2 teaspoon mild curry powder
1  tablespoon dark rum2 tablespoons toasted shredded sweet-
ened coconut
Apple Mini Tarts:
1⁄2 cup white port
3 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cardamom
2 tablespoons unsalted butter2 Red Delicious apples, peeled, cored, and 
chopped
1  Bartlett pear, peeled, cored, and chopped1  teaspoon cornstarch2 teaspoons fresh lime juice 
1⁄4 teaspoon Maldon sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3 tablespoons heavy cream 1  teaspoon brandy Pinch of sugar
For the Tart Shells:
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
 2. Thaw the pie shells until they are pliable and roll out on a lightly ﬂ  oured surface to 
ﬂ atten and even them out to a thickness of slightly less than 1⁄8 inch. (If the pastry 
gets too warm, refrigerate brieﬂ  y, then reroll the dough on a lightly ﬂ  oured surface 
with a lightly ﬂ  oured rolling pin.) Cut out circles big enough to hang over the rims 
of six 4-inch tart shells with removable bottoms. Carefully press the pastry into the 
bottom and sides of the shells. Using a kitchen fork, randomly prick the bottom of the pastry. Cut a piece of parchment paper large enough to cover the bottom of each shell and come up the sides, and ﬁ  t one into each shell. Fill the bottom of the shells 
with pastry weights or dried beans.
 3. Bake until lightly browned, about 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and place on a 
wire rack to cool completely. Remove the shells from the tins.
For the Berry Mini Tarts:
 1. In a medium saucepan, combine the vinegar and granulated sugar and place over 
medium heat. Cook, stirring to dissolve the sugar, until reduced to a syrup, 5 to 7 minutes.3 hours
Serv es 6
Winner
“What nobody 
knows is, I have 
some pastry experience.”
JOEYDESSERT     227
 2. Reserve 4 raspberries and 4 blackberries for the topping. Place all the remaining 
berries in a small saucepan. Add the brown sugar and place over medium heat. 
Cook until the fruit has broken down and the mixture is thick and caramelized. Add the Grand Marnier
® and cook, stirring to release any bits stuck to the pan, until the 
alcohol has evaporated. Remove from the heat, transfer to a container, and chill until ready to serve.
 3. In a medium bowl, combine the sour cream and cream cheese and stir well with a 
fork to combine. Add 1 teaspoon of the fruit compote and stir to incorporate.
 4. Divide the sour cream mixture between two of the tart shells, making a well in the 
center. Add the fruit compote to the well and top with the remaining raspberries and blackberries. Drizzle with the balsamic syrup.
For the Mango Mini Tarts:
 1. In a blender, combine the port, 2 tablespoons of the brown sugar, and the crystal-
lized ginger and blend until smooth. Transfer to a medium saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Simmer until reduced to a syrup, 5 to 7 minutes. Strain and set aside.
 2. While you’re making the syrup, in a medium saucepan, combine the mango, curry 
powder, and remaining 
1⁄2 cup brown sugar. Place over medium heat and cook until 
the mango has broken down and starts to caramelize. Add the rum and cook, stirring to release any bits stuck to the pan, until the alcohol has evaporated. Transfer to a blender and blend until smooth. Remove from the heat, transfer to a container, and chill until ready to serve.
 3. Divide the mango ﬁ  lling between two of the remaining tart shells. Drizzle with the 
port syrup and top with the toasted coconut.
For the Apple Mini Tarts:
 1. In a small saucepan, combine the port, 2 tablespoons of the brown sugar, and the 
cardamom and place over medium heat. Cook, stirring to dissolve the sugar, until reduced to a syrup, 5 to 7 minutes.
 2. While you’re making the syrup, in a medium saucepan, heat the butter over medium 
heat. Add the apples, pear, and remaining 1 tablespoon brown sugar and cook, cov-ered, until the fruit is soft and just beginning to break down. Combine the cornstarch with 2 teaspoons cold water and stir to dissolve. Add to the apple mixture and cook for 2 minutes to thicken. Add the lime juice. Remove from the heat, transfer to a container, and chill until ready to serve.
 3. In a small bowl, toss the salt with the cinnamon. Strain the mixture through a ﬁ  ne-
mesh sieve, discarding the cinnamon and keeping the cinnamon-covered salt.
 4. In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters, whip the cream for 1 minute. Add the brandy 
and sugar and whip until soft peaks form.
 5. Divide the fruit mixture between the remaining two tart shells, drizzle with the port 
syrup, top with the whipped cream, and sprinkle with the cinnamon salt.“Very nice. You 
have a future 
in tarts.”
CHEF MARIA FRUMKIN, GUEST JUDGE
228    DESSERTCHEF: M arcel 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 11
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create a dish using Nestlé Chocolatier products.Potato Cannoli
with Coffee Whipped Cream and Chocolate Mousse
1  cup vanilla wafers
1  to 2 russet potatoesNonstick vegetable oil spray (optional)Vegetable oil for frying
Salt
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped 4 cups heavy creamSuperﬁ  ne sugar
5 dried guajillo chiles, stemmed and 
seeded
1  teaspoon instant espresso powder, or 
1 tablespoon very ﬁ  nely ground espresso 
beans
4 small scoops vanilla ice cream
 1. In a food processor, grind the vanilla wafers to a ﬁ  ne powder and set aside.
 2. Peel the potatoes and use a mandoline to cut them into long, paper-thin slices. Trim 
off the rounded ends and roll each slice into a tube about 1 inch in diameter; wrap 
a length of kitchen string around the center and tie to help the roll keep its shape. Make 10 to 12 tubes, allowing 2 per serving plus some for breakage. (Alternatively, spray cannoli molds with cooking spray, wrap the potato slices around the molds, then wrap each tube in parchment paper, tying it closed with kitchen string.)
 3. In a large, heavy pot, heat 2 to 3 inches of oil to 325°F. Working in batches, add the 
potato tubes and fry, turning with tongs or a slotted spoon, until lightly browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer to paper towels to drain. (Immediately remove the paper, if using, and slide the tubes off the molds.) Increase the oil temperature to 375°F and return the potato tubes to the oil to cook until well browned and crisp, about 2 min-utes. Transfer to paper towels to drain. Season lightly with salt and set aside. When cool, remove the strings.
 4. In the top of a double boiler over simmering water, melt the chocolate, stirring until 
smooth. Combine half of the chocolate with 
1⁄4 cup of the cream and superﬁ  ne sugar 
to taste to make a sauce. Set the sauce and the remaining chocolate aside.
 5. In a skillet, toast the chiles over high heat, pressing down with a spatula, until fra-
grant and lightly browned in spots, about 3 minutes. Put the chiles in a food proces-sor or a spice mill and process until ﬁ  nely ground. In a small saucepan, bring 1 cup 
of the cream to a simmer and add the chiles. Simmer for 10 minutes, then remove from the heat, cover, and let steep for 10 minutes. Transfer the cream and chiles to a blender and blend until smooth. Pour the cream through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve set over a 
bowl. Sweeten to taste with superﬁ  ne sugar.
 6. In a chilled bowl using chilled beaters, whip the remaining 2 
3⁄4 cups cream until 
medium-stiff peaks form. Put half of the whipped cream in a separate bowl and gently fold in the espresso. Fold the reserved melted chocolate into the other half of the whipped cream. Put the coffee and chocolate whipped cream mixtures into separate piping bags (or use zip-top bags with one corner cut off).
 7. On each of 4 serving plates, spoon a bit of the chocolate sauce, then some of the chile-infused cream. For each serving, ﬁ  ll 2 potato cannoli, piping coffee cream into 
one end and chocolate cream into the other, and place on the plate. Place a small scoop of ice cream next to the cannoli and garnish the plate with the confectioners’ vanilla wafers. Serve immediately.1 hour
Serv es 4
HOW TO: 
Have Fun with Salt
Salt has long been the unsung 
hero of the pastry kitchen, allow-ing the ﬂ  avors of everything from 
lemon to chocolate to shine while taking none of the credit. Many 
pastry chefs in recent years, however, have been using salt and pepper on their own terms, to draw a bright or spicy contrast with the sweet elements in a dessert. Caramels are salted, apple compotes are topped with crunchy sea salt (see the apple tart on page 226), and pears are 
poached in peppercorn-infused 
wine. Marcel says he wanted to add pepper to his chocolate- and coffee-ﬁ  lled potato cannoli but 
thought that was beyond the pale for most diners. Maybe in a few years.CHEF: M arcel 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 13
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.
CHEF AND RESTAURATEUR HUBERT KELLER, GUEST JUDGE   “TOTALLY EXCITING, A CONVERSATION PIECE. 
VERY UNIQUE.”Blini with Kona Coffee “Caviar”  
and Hawaiian Chocolate Mousse
8 ounces Hawaiian semisweet chocolate, 
chopped
2 cups heavy cream
1  cup freshly brewed Kona coffee, cooled 
to lukewarm1  teaspoon sodium alginate2 tablespoons sugar1  teaspoon calcium chloride4 blinis (homemade or store-bought)
 1. In a heat-proof bowl, combine the chocolate and 1 cup of the cream. Set the bowl 
over a saucepan of simmering water. Stir occasionally until the chocolate is almost 
melted. Remove from the heat and stir until smooth. Let cool slightly.
 2. In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters, whip the remaining 1 cup cream until soft 
peaks form. 
 3. Using a large rubber spatula, stir one-third of the whipped cream into the chocolate 
mixture to lighten it, then gently fold the rest of the whipped cream into the choco-late mixture until just combined. Cover and refrigerate the mousse overnight.
 4. In a small saucepan, combine the coffee, sodium alginate, and sugar. Using an 
immersion blender or a whisk, mix until smooth. Place over high heat and cook until the temperature reaches 205°F. Remove from the heat and pour through a ﬁ  ne-
mesh sieve into a bowl. Refrigerate until cold.
 5. When ready to serve, combine 2 cups water and the calcium chloride in a medium 
bowl. Whisk together to dissolve the calcium chloride.
 6. Fill another medium bowl with cold water and set aside.
 7. Fill a plastic syringe with the chilled coffee and alginate mixture, taking care not to draw any of the surface foam into the syringe. Drop the coffee mixture one drop at a time into the calcium chloride solution. Allow the drops to rest in the bath for 5 min-utes; do not let them soak longer, or the center of each ball will continue to solidify. Using a small ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve, gently lift the “caviar” out of the solution and transfer 
it to the cold water to rinse. 
 8. Place 1 blini on each of 4 serving plates. Spoon chilled chocolate mousse on top 
of the blinis. Drain the rinsed “caviar” in the sieve, then place a few on top of each serving of mousse. Serve immediately.45 minutes, plus 
chilling overnight
Serves  4
“How smart! A blini 
with ‘caviar.’ That’s 
great—I love that.”
CHEF AND RESTAURA-TEUR WYLIE DUFRESNE, GUEST JUDGE
DESSERT     229CHEF: Hung 
SEASON 3, EPISODE 14
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.Molten Chocolate Cakes 
with Vanilla Crème Fraîche, Raspberry Coulis, and Nougatine Tuiles
Raspberry Coulis:
1  pint fresh raspberries
2 tablespoons granulated sugar, or to taste1  tablespoon fresh lemon juice, or to taste
Vanilla Crème Fraîche:
1  cup heavy cream
3 tablespoons crème fraîche1  teaspoon vanilla extract
1⁄2 teaspoon almond extract
1  tablespoon granulated sugar
Molten Chocolate Cakes:
9 ounces bittersweet chocolate, coarsely 
chopped1  cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more 
for the baking cups
4 large eggs plus 4 large egg yolks
1⁄2 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂ  our
To Se rve:
1  cup fresh raspberriesFresh mint leaves
Nougatine Tuiles (see left)
For the Raspberry Coulis:
  Put all the ingredients in a food processor and puree. Strain through a ﬁ  ne-mesh 
sieve, pushing down on the solids. Discard the seeds. Taste and add more sugar or 
lemon juice if needed. Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve.
For the Vanilla Crème Fraîche:
 1.  Put the cream in a large bowl and beat with an electric mixer until soft peaks form. 
Add the crème fraîche, vanilla, almond extract , and granulated sugar and beat until 
medium peaks form.
 2. Refrigerate while you make the chocolate cakes.
For the Molten Chocolate Cakes:
 1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. Butter eight 4- to 6-ounce ramekins or individual 
mufﬁ  n cups.
 2. In the top of a double boiler, combine the chocolate and butter and place over barely 
simmering water. Stir until melted. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly.
 3. In a large bowl, beat the eggs and yolks until frothy. Add the sugar and continue 
beating until doubled in volume. Beat in the ﬂ  our. Divide the batter among the rame-
kins. Bake until the sides are set but the center remains soft, 11 to 14 minutes.
To Se rve:
  Run a small knife around the cakes to loosen, and turn the cakes out onto plates. 
Spoon raspberry coulis around the cakes and top with a dollop of crème fraîche. Garnish with raspberries and mint. Pass the tuiles around the table.1 1⁄2 hours
Serv es 8
ON THE SIDE: 
Nougatine Tuiles
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, 
cut into pieces
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1⁄4 cup confectioners’ sugar
1⁄4 cup slivered almonds
1.  Preheat the oven to 350°F and line 2 baking sheets with Silpats™ (silicone mats).
2.  In a medium saucepan, 
combine the butter, corn syrup, and confectioners’ sugar. Place over medium heat and bring to a simmer, whisking, and simmer for 1 minute. Stir in the almonds and remove from the heat. Drop teaspoons of the mixture onto the baking sheets about 3 inches apart. Spread out thinly with the back of a spoon. Bake until golden brown, 12 to 15 minutes. Re-move from the oven and let cool slightly on the baking sheets.
3.  Pat the tuiles with paper 
towels to remove excess butter, carefully remove from the bak-ing sheet with a metal spatula, and place on a plate alongside the chocolate cakes.
230    DESSERTDESSERT     233CHEF: H arold 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 12
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Cook the best meal of your life.
RESTAURATEUR DREW NIEPORENT, GUEST JUDGE   “THE CHEESES WERE VERY SMARTLY CHOSEN.”Fig Tart with Cheeses 
2⁄3 cup pine nuts
1  cup all-purpose ﬂ  our
1  tablespoon sugar
Pinch of salt5 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room 
temperature
1  large egg yolk4 ounces dried Black Mission ﬁ  gs
1⁄2 cup sugar
1  vanilla bean, split lengthwise, seeds 
scraped and reserved1  cup heavy cream4 large eggs1  ounce ﬁ  g jam
4 fresh ﬁ  gs, halved, for garnish
8 ounces Pecorino tartufo cheese8 ounces Gorgonzola dolce cheese8 ounces Taleggio cheese1  tablespoon honey8 slices sourdough baguette, toasted
 1. Preheat the oven to 325°F.
 2. Put the pine nuts in a food processor and pulse to roughly chop. Add the ﬂ  our, 
sugar, and salt and pulse until the nuts are ﬁ  nely ground. Transfer the mixture to a 
medium bowl.
 3. Add the butter, egg yolk, and 2 tablespoons water and use a pastry cutter or your 
ﬁ ngertips to combine until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Form the dough into 
a ﬂ at disk, wrap in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. 
 4. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan, cook the dried ﬁ  gs, sugar, 3⁄4 cup water, and the 
vanilla bean and seeds for 15 to 20 minutes, until the ﬁ  gs are very soft. 
 5. Transfer the mixture to a blender, add the cream, and blend to combine; add the 
eggs and blend brieﬂ  y to combine. Set aside.
 6. Remove the dough from the refrigerator and remove the plastic. Pat the dough 
evenly into a 9-inch tart pan with a removable bottom. Fit a piece of aluminum foil 
into the tart shell to help it keep its shape; bake for 10 minutes, then remove the foil and bake for another 6 to 8 minutes, until golden brown.
 7. Fill the tart shell with the ﬁ  g mixture and bake for 24 to 28 minutes, or until the ﬁ  ll-
ing is just set in the center. Transfer to a wire rack to cool to room temperature.
 8. Cut into 8 wedges. Place each wedge on a serving plate and top with ﬁ  g jam. 
Arrange a fresh ﬁ  g half alongside.
 9. Cut the cheeses into 1-ounce pieces and place them alongside the tart wedges. Drizzle the Taleggio with the honey. Serve with the toasted bread.45 minutes
Serves  8
WHAT IS . . . 
The Cheese 
Course?
The cheese course is served 
after the main course and before dessert, and at its simplest is a selection of no more than three cheeses, with plain bread—pref-erably a baguette—on the side. 
For your cheese selection, 
you can choose different styles 
made from one type of milk, or you can choose cheeses made from different milks. In either case, be sure that each cheese is sufﬁ  ciently different in texture, 
ﬂ avor, and color to make the 
selection interesting.
Arrange the cheeses on the 
plate from mildest to strongest, with plenty of space between them. Fresh fruit like grapes and pears are good palate cleansers, and ﬁ  gs and apricots go nicely 
with many cheeses. Also try a little honey, a spoonful of mild compote (such as black cherry), an onion or shallot marmalade or conﬁ  t, or even spices and nuts.234    DESSERTCHEF: Cliff 
SEASON 2, EPISODE 3
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Serve an original ice cream to crowds at the Redondo Beach Seaside Lagoon.
2 cups heavy cream
1  cup milk
1⁄2 cup sugar
Pinch of salt6 large egg yolks1⁄2 cup chocolate cookie crumbs
1⁄2 cup mini marshmallows
1⁄4 cup graham cracker crumbs
1⁄4 cup toasted slivered almonds
 1.  In a large, heavy saucepan, combine the cream, milk, sugar, and salt. Place over 
medium heat and bring just to a boil, stirring occasionally.
 2.  Whisk the egg yolks in a large heat-proof bowl. Add the hot cream mixture in a slow, 
steady stream, whisking constantly, then pour the mixture back into the pan and 
cook, stirring, over medium-low heat until the custard is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon and reaches a temperature of 170°F. Do not let the custard boil.
 3.  Pour the custard through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a clean heat-proof bowl. Cool to 
room temperature, stirring occasionally, then transfer to a container and refriger-ate until cold, at least 3 hours (or make the custard the day before and refrigerate overnight).
 4.  Transfer the custard to an electric ice cream maker and prepare according to the 
manufacturer’s directions. At the last minute, add the cookie crumbs, marshmal-lows, graham cracker crumbs, and toasted almonds and mix to incorporate. Transfer to an airtight container and freeze to ﬁ  rm up.“The avenue I took 
was what I like 
in ice cream. I want something crunchy, I want something soft, and cookies, because I like cookies.”
CLIFFMarshmallow and Cookie Ice Cream
45 minutes, plus chilling at least 3 hours 
Makes about 1 quartDESSERT     235CHEF: R ichard 
SEASON 4, EPISODE 7
QUICKFIRE CHALLENGE: Create an amazing dessert.
For the Chocolate Ice Cream:
 1. In a medium heat-proof bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the 
chocolate, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Set aside to cool.
 2. In a large, heavy saucepan, combine the cream, milk, and 1⁄2 cup of the sugar. Place 
over medium heat and bring just to a boil, stirring occasionally.
 3. Whisk the egg yolks in a large heat-proof bowl with the remaining 1⁄4 cup sugar until 
combined and light yellow. Add the melted chocolate and whisk until fully incorpo-
rated. Add the hot cream mixture, whisking constantly, then pour the mixture back into the pan and cook, stirring, over medium-low heat until the custard is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon and reaches a temperature of 170°F.
 4. Pour the custard through a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve into a clean heat-proof bowl. Cool to 
room temperature, stirring occasionally, then transfer to a container and refrigerate until cold, at least 3 hours (or make the custard the day before and refrigerate over-night). Transfer the custard to an electric ice cream maker and prepare according to the manufacturer’s directions. Transfer to an airtight container and freeze.
For the Banana Scallops:
  Just before you’re ready to serve, heat a small nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Spread the sugar over a plate and press the top and bottom ends of the banana scallops into the sugar to coat. Place the banana scallops in the skillet a few at a time and sear until softened and the sugar coating has caramelized, about 1 minute each side. 
To Se rve:
  Spoon the guacamole onto serving plates. Top with the banana scallops and garnish with the herbs. Drizzle with the remaining lime-ginger syrup. Place a scoop of chocolate ice cream alongside.
Note: 
  To make a small amount of ginger juice, ﬁ  nely grate fresh ginger, then squeeze in the 
palm of your hand to extract the juice.Chocolate Ice Cream:
8 ounces 72% bittersweet chocolate, 
cut into pieces
2 cups heavy cream1  cup milk
3⁄4 cup sugar
6 large egg yolksBanana Scallops:4 ripe bananas, cut into 1-inch pieces 
(to resemble scallops)
1⁄2 cup demerara sugar
Banana Guacamole (see right)1 hour, plus overnight 
freezing
Serv es 8
Winner
ON THE SIDE: 
Banana 
Guacamole
1⁄2 cup fresh lime juice
4 teaspoons fresh ginger juice 
(see note)
1⁄2 cup sugar
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper 
ﬂ akes, to taste
4 ripe bananas
1⁄4 cup chopped fresh cilantro, 
plus more for garnish
1⁄4 cup chopped fresh basil, 
plus more for garnish
2 tablespoons chopped fresh 
tarragon, plus more for 
garnish
1.  In a medium saucepan, com-
bine the lime juice, ginger juice, sugar, and red pepper ﬂ  akes. 
Place over medium heat, bring to a simmer, and simmer for 10 minutes or until slightly syrupy, stirring constantly and check-ing that the mixture doesn’t boil over.
2.  Place the bananas in a 
medium bowl and mash them with a potato masher or fork. Stir in the lime-ginger syrup, reserving about 
1⁄4 cup for gar-
nish. Stir in the cilantro, basil, and tarragon.Banana Scallops, Banana Guacamole 
and Chocolate Ice Cream 236    DESSERTCHEF: Brian H. 
SEASON 1, EPISODE 2
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Make a sexy dessert for a fetish party.Strawberry Apple Crisp  
with Hazelnut Whipped Cream
Hazelnut Crisp:
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room 
temperature, plus more for the pan
1⁄2 cup all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more for 
the pan
3⁄4 cup cake ﬂ  our
2 cups confectioners’ sugar6 large egg whites1  tablespoon vanilla extract
1⁄4 cup ﬁ  nely chopped hazelnuts
Apples:
1⁄4 cup sugar
2 large Fuji apples, peeled, cored, and cut 
into 1⁄8-inch-thick slices2 tablespoons fresh orange juicePinch of ground cinnamonPinch of freshly grated nutmeg4 tablespoons salted butter
Hazelnut Whipped Cream:
1  pint heavy cream
1⁄4 cup sugar
1⁄4 cup Frangelico® liqueur 
To Se rve:
2 cups strawberries, quartered, at room 
temperature
For the Hazelnut Crisp:
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Butter and ﬂ  our 2 large, rimless baking sheets.
 2. Sift the ﬂ  ours and the confectioners’ sugar together into the bowl of an electric 
mixer. Add the butter, egg whites, and vanilla and beat until thoroughly incorporated. 
 3. Using an offset spatula, spread the paste evenly onto the prepared baking sheets, 
spreading it as thinly as possible. Sprinkle the hazelnuts evenly over the paste.
 4. Bake for 15 to 17 minutes, until golden brown (the crisp will be darker at the edges; 
do not let it burn). Transfer the crisp to a wire rack to cool to room temperature, 
then break it into roughly shaped pieces. Set aside.
For the Apples:
 1. Sprinkle the sugar into a large sauté pan or skillet. Arrange the apples in a single 
layer over the sugar and place the pan over medium-high heat. 
 2. Sprinkle the orange juice over the apples and sprinkle with the cinnamon and nut-
meg. Dot the butter over the top. Simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, until the apples are soft. Set aside.
For the Hazelnut Whipped Cream:
  In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters, whip the cream for about 1 minute, then add the sugar and liqueur and whip until soft peaks form. Refrigerate, covered, until ready to serve.
To Se rve:  
  Divide the apples among 4 dessert dishes. Top with a layer of strawberries and a dol-lop of whipped cream. Stick a hazelnut crisp into the top and serve immediately.45 minutes
Serv es 4
“The crisp was very 
nice. I really liked 
the rough edges and the cream on top. That was very sensual.”
GAIL SIMMONS, JUDGECHEF: Miguel
SEASON 1, EPISODE 2
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Make a sexy dessert for a fetish party.The Total Orgasm 
Lemon Pastry Puffs, Tapioca Pillows, and Cold Hot-Chocolate Shots
Cold Hot Chocolate:
8 ounces milk chocolate, chopped1  pint heavy cream1  cup milk1  cinnamon stick
Pastry Puffs: 
9 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more 
for the baking sheets
1  cup plus 2 
1⁄4 teaspoons granulated sugar
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1  cup all-purpose ﬂ  our
7 large eggs
1⁄2 cup fresh lemon juice
3 large egg yolks
4 fresh thyme sprigs
Tapioca Pillows:
1⁄2 cup small pearl tapioca, soaked over-
night, if necessary, according to the 
package instructions
One 13 1⁄2-ounce can unsweetened 
coconut milk
1  cup milk 
1  cup granulated sugar1  teaspoon salt2 large eggs, beaten1  teaspoon ground cinnamon
1⁄2 teaspoon ground ginger
1⁄2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1  tablespoon minced fresh cilantro4 ripe mangoes12 to 18 fresh chives2 cups passionfruit juice2 tablespoons cornstarch
Spicy Whipped Cream:
1 
1⁄2 cups heavy cream
3 tablespoons confectioners’ sugar1  teaspoon ground cayenne, or more 
to taste
1  teaspoon ground cinnamon
To Decorate and Serve:
8 ounces white chocolate
Red food coloring
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate1  pint fresh strawberries, hulled and cut 
into 
1⁄4-inch dice
1⁄4 cup pepitas (hulled pumpkin seeds)
For the Cold Hot Chocolate:
  In a small saucepan, heat the chocolate, cream, milk, and cinnamon stick over 
medium-high heat, stirring constantly. Bring to a simmer, then remove from the heat and let cool. Remove and discard the cinnamon stick. Cover with a piece of plastic wrap directly on the surface of the chocolate and refrigerate overnight.
For the Pastry Puffs:
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Butter 2 baking sheets.
 2. In a medium saucepan, combine 1 cup water, 6 tablespoons of the butter, the 
2 
1⁄4 teaspoons sugar, and the salt. Cook over medium heat until the butter is melted, 
then raise the heat to high and bring to a rapid boil. Remove from the heat and add the ﬂ  our; beat with a wooden spoon until the mixture comes away from the sides of 
the pan. Add 4 of the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
 3. Put the dough in a piping bag with a 1-inch plain round tip (or in a heavy-duty zip-
top bag with one corner cut off) and pipe 1 
1⁄4-inch balls onto the prepared baking 
sheets. Dip your ﬁ  ngertips in water and smooth the tops of the balls.
 4. Bake for 20 minutes, then lower the oven temperature to 300°F and bake for 10 to More than 3 hours, 
plus chilling overnight
Serv es 12 to 18
Winner
“The bottom line is, 
if you don’t bring 
sex to the table, you’re going to go home.”
MIGUEL
238    DESSERT“Although there’s 
nothing sexy about 
Miguel, his dish was fantastic.”
MADAME S., OWNER OF MR. S SEX SHOP, GUEST JUDGE
DESSERT     23915 minutes longer, until golden brown. Turn off the oven. Remove the baking sheets 
from the oven and use a small, sharp knife to make a small hole in the side of each puff to allow steam to escape. Return the puffs to the baking sheets and put them in the turned-off oven for 10 minutes to dry. Set aside to cool completely.
 5. In a heat-proof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, combine the lemon 
juice, 1 cup sugar, the remaining 3 eggs, egg yolks, and thyme. Whisk for 8 to 10 min-utes until thickened. Remove from the heat, add the remaining 3 tablespoons butter, and whisk until smooth. Let cool, then cover and refrigerate until chilled. Discard the thyme sprigs. Put the ﬁ  lling in a piping bag ﬁ  tted with a small plain tip and set aside.
For the Tapioca Pillows:
 1. In a small saucepan, combine the tapioca, coconut milk, milk, 
1⁄2 cup of the sugar, 
salt, eggs, cinnamon, and ginger. Cook, stirring constantly, over medium heat for 15 to 25 minutes, until the tapioca is soft and translucent. Stir in the vanilla and cilan-tro. Let cool to room temperature, then cover and refrigerate until chilled. 
 2. Peel the mangoes and use a mandoline or sharp knife to cut them into 12 to 18 large, 
paper-thin slices. Trim the remaining ﬂ  esh off the pits and set the trimmings aside.
 3. Lay the mango slices ﬂ  at on a work surface and put about 1 tablespoon of the tapi-
oca on one end of each slice. Roll the slices up like an egg roll, folding in one or both sides to contain the pudding, and tie each roll closed with a chive.
 4. In a small saucepan, combine the passionfruit juice and remaining 
1⁄2 cup sugar and 
cook over high heat for about 5 minutes, until the sugar is dissolved. In a cup, com-bine the cornstarch and 2 tablespoons water, stirring until smooth. Add to the juice mixture and bring to a boil. Boil for 2 minutes, or until thickened. Let cool.
For the Spicy Whipped Cream:
  In a large chilled bowl using chilled beaters, whip the cream, confectioners’ sugar, cayenne, and cinnamon until soft peaks form. Set aside.
To Decorate and Serve:
 1. In a heat-proof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, melt the white choco-
late. Put about 
1⁄4 cup of the chocolate in a cup and add food coloring to tint it pink. 
In a separate bowl over simmering water, melt 2 ounces of the bittersweet chocolate. Dip the top of each cream puff in white chocolate and set aside until the chocolate is set. Dab a bit of pink chocolate in the center of the white chocolate, then use a toothpick to make a dot of bittersweet chocolate in the center of the pink. To ﬁ  ll the 
puffs, poke a small hole in the bottom of each puff and pipe in the lemon ﬁ  lling.
 2. In a blender or food processor, puree the mango trimmings. Divide the puree among 
12 to 18 tall shot glasses. Put 
1⁄2 teaspoon of the strawberries on top of the puree 
in each glass. Fill the glasses with the cold hot chocolate and top with a dollop of the whipped cream. Shave some of the remaining bittersweet chocolate over the whipped cream. (Save the rest for another use.)
 3. Spoon a bit of the passionfruit gelée into each of 12 to 18 Chinese soupspoons. Place 
the tapioca pillows on top of the gelée and garnish with the pepitas.
 4. Serve the chocolate shots, pastry puffs, and tapioca pillows on a large platter.240    DESSERT
CHEF: Elia
SEASON 2, EPISODE 4
ELIMINATION CHALLENGE: Create a meal under 500 calories.Low-Fat Berry Cheesecake 
1  cup organic plain granola (no fruits 
or nuts)
1  cup ﬂ  ax cereal (ﬂ  akes; no fruits or nuts)
2 large egg whites
1  tablespoon unﬂ  avored gelatin (measured 
from 2 envelopes)
1 1⁄2 cups low-fat strawberry yogurtTwo 8-ounce packages low-fat cream 
cheese
2 teaspoons vanilla extract2 cups fresh blackberries1  cup halved fresh strawberriesMint leaves for garnish
 1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
 2. Put the granola and ﬂ  ax cereal into a large, heavy-duty zip-top bag. Gently crush 
with a rolling pin to form coarse crumbs.
 3. In a medium bowl, lightly beat the egg whites. Add the cereal mixture and stir to 
combine. Transfer the mixture to an 8-inch springform pan and spread evenly over 
the bottom of the pan and a little up the sides, patting it down so it all stays together. 
 4. Bake for 15 minutes, or until lightly browned and crisp. Remove from the oven and 
let cool completely.
 5. Pour 1⁄3 cup water into a small saucepan and sprinkle the gelatin over the water. Let 
stand for 10 minutes. Place over very low heat and stir until the gelatin dissolves. 
 6. In a food processor, combine the yogurt, cream cheese, and vanilla and blend until 
smooth. With the motor running, slowly add the warm gelatin mixture in a thin stream through the hole in the lid.
 7. Pour the ﬁ  lling over the crust. Cover with plastic and chill overnight to set. Run a dull 
knife around the sides of the pan to loosen the cake, then release the pan sides and transfer to a serving platter.
 8. Scatter the top with the berries and garnish with the mint leaves. Cut into wedges 
and serve.30 minutes, plus 
chilling overnight
Serv es 8 to 10
WHAT ARE . . . 
Flaxseeds?
Smooth and shiny, golden or 
brown, ﬂ  axseeds are rich in 
omega-3 fats, which promote bone health, help lower blood pressure, and lower the risk of heart attack and stroke. Furthermore, these little 
wonders—also good sources of dietary ﬁ  ber and crucial 
trace elements like manga-nese—have been shown to lower cholesterol and help prevent cancer.“We’ve always strived to build strong 
relationships between our characters 
and our fans,” says Bravo Media presi-dent Lauren Zalaznick. “If you can get people to care so much that one hour of television isn’t enough, well, that’s an amazing feat.”
 Those for whom one hour isn’t  enough, who jones for 
a little Top Chef  ﬁ x between episodes, know where to 
look: BravoTV.com. There, in an ever-expanding list 
of Top Chef   blogs, the judges expand on and explain 
their decisions. Former contestants, including Carlos Fernandez and Harold Dieterle, handicap the current 
season. Viewers chime in with their thoughts and con-spiracy theories. And self-described “
Top Chef  nerds” 
like Anthony Bourdain and Rocco DiSpirito contribute running, often breathless, journals of what it’s like to be both a chef and a fan. 
 The king of 
Top Chef  interactivity is unquestionably 
Bravo SVP and executive producer Andy Cohen, who 
not only contributes a daily written blog on all things Bravo but also hosts “Watch What Happens,” which airs on the website just after each episode.  On the live video segments, Cohen debriefs the eliminated chef, interviews judges, takes viewer calls and questions, and offers behind-the-scenes insight. He also winds up in some pretty awkward situations, as when he was preparing to broadcast after the Season 2 ﬁ  nale. 
 “I had to watch the ﬁ  nale live in a room with Marcel and 
Ilan, who spent the entire episode on-screen ruthlessly 
griping at each other. Then we had to go on the air and talk about it,” Cohen remembers. “It was just one of the 
most uncomfortable situations I’ve ever been in.”
To read more, go to BravoTV.com.Blogging Top Chef
242    BLOGGING TOP CHEF  Bourdain’s Blog
8/8/07 Season 3, Episode 7
Low Spark and High Heels . . . 
In the Roach Coach
Who EVER ﬁ  nds themselves yearning suddenly for 
cauliﬂ  ower in their ice cream sundae? Who has 
ever—in recorded history—thought to themselves: 
“Gee . . . this ice cream would be so much better if only 
there were tempura ﬂ  akes on it”? Or yearned, while 
spooning vanilla ice cream into their face, for FOAM?
8/22/07 Season 3, Episode 9
Train in Vain
A thrilling episode this week, with a surprising and sad ending. In many ways, the last few episodes have (in their own pain-inducing way) better illustrated the skill set you REALLY need to succeed as a Top Chef than straight, head-to-head cook-offs ever could—how to do things you might not be particularly good at while under pressure. How to get knocked out of your comfort zone—without warning—and still soldier through. How to deal with things going wrong all around you—without losing your cool. How to step up and above your normal responsibilities—and man-age to pull it off.
As most who’ve spent any time as professional chefs 
know all too well, the phrases “It’s not my job” and “It’s unfair” have no real meaning when you're in charge of a kitchen.
9/5/07 Season 3, Episode 10
Sympathy for the Devil
There was rejoicing in TV-land last night, as desig-nated bad guy Howie whiffed on three pitches and was sent home for good. For many who have posted on this site, offended by his petulance, his obstinacy, the veritable Niagara of sweat that ﬂ  owed freely from 
his brow, it was none too soon. But . . . but . . . what do we do now? With no bad guy?
And was Howie all that bad?
Rocco’s Blog
11/15/06  Season 2, Episode 5
I’m Getting Grumpy
I don’t have patience for over-the-top food descrip-
tions, mostly because they seem to say, “look at how fancy this dish is!” and I’m not a big fan of fancy food. I’m OK with food that requires a high level of skill to prepare. And I don’t have a problem with ﬁ  ne dining—
provided I’m in the mood for it. But the word “fancy” speaks to me of pretension, embellishment, the need to impress. About presentation over substance.
9/20/07  Season 3, Episode 12
The Final Four
This week’s episode just may be one of my favor-ites yet. Why? Because it was all about the food. It provided two very straightforward challenges, without gimmicks, that gave both the judges and the viewers a great way to analyze the cooking skills of our ﬁ  ve 
remaining chefs. 8/14/07   Season 3, Episode 7  
Suck It Up Time
There and then I learned, whatever reason you cook, you have to know one thing—your job is to feed people and make them happy. If that means slopping blue cheese on a bad burger for a bunch of margarita-swilling Parisians, then so be it. And by the way, it’s a conscious decision. Every 
Top Chef   Elimination 
Challenge is ostensibly about cooking, but it’s also so much more.
8/23/07  Season 3, Episode 9
Tre Sara, Sara
WHAT A NIGHT! It’s OK—I have been wrong before. In one of the best surprise endings of the season, my judgment about Sara’s unholy self-appointment as head chef was premature. She WON! The underdog prevailed. In a series of unexpected twists and turns, true to the nature of the restaurant business, the out-come of this week’s episode of 
Top Chef  couldn’t have 
been predicted. Holy Parisian Gnocchi, Batman! 
BLOGGING TOP CHEF      243Tom’s Blog
11/22/06   Season 2, Episode 6 
Half Pirate, Half Hippie
I was thoroughly surprised to see Betty’s horns shoot out of her head like that. I guess everyone else saw it, but I really didn’t. She’s ﬁ  ery, man. Fiery. It just makes 
you wonder how real that smile is all the time. I had suspicions when I saw her and Marcel go at it the ﬁ  rst 
time, but this time she got the bus driver’s uniform, she put it on, she got behind the wheel of the bus and started driving over people.
6/29/07  Season 3, Episode 3
Sweet Vindication
You know, there was a teeny outrage during our 
wedding challenge when we used wedding cake mix in Season 1, and the cakes were ﬁ  ne. There were no 
complaints about the cake. And now, again, other people used premade ingredients and it’s like, “Oh, smart idea.” I thought that was kind of funny. Vindi-cating a little. Harold’s Blog 
Andy’s Blog
5/2/06  Season 1, Episode 10
Top Chef Reunion
Like President Bush, I am a “decider”—and, like our Brainiac-in-Chief, I made a very big decision at the 
Top Chef  reunion taping. I decided to indulge in every-
thing the craft service table had to offer in a signiﬁ  -
cant way. Of course, the decision was made against my own will because I am powerless next to a craft service table, which is replenished constantly with snacky foods, healthy treats, and main courses.
2/1/07  Season 2, Episode 13
Watch What Happens: 
Awkward Moments Edition!
As for Marcel, his hair in person is something to behold; I saw no gel, foam, gelée, or mousse propping it up, it is just an outstanding concoction of molecular follicology.
Bravo Media president Lauren Zalaznick 
says that the number-one question she gets from people about 
Top Chef  is, 
“What are the contestants really like?” 
“Then, when people actually meet, say, Stephen Asprinio 
or Harold Dieterle at one of our events, they always 
nudge me: ‘They’re just like they are on the show.’ And I say, ‘Yeah, I know. They’re not actors. That’s who they are!’ ” This desire from fans to see how their beloved contestants act outside the usual reality-show frame helps explain why reunion shows have become such an anticipated part of the 
Top Chef  experience. “I think 
people have become so fanatical about the series that they want to see the chefs, and the judges, in a relaxed atmosphere, looking back on the season,” says Andy Cohen, who hosts the reunions. 
Each reunion has been an entertaining mix of high-
concept montages, Stew Room outtakes, Judges’ Table bloopers, and candid admissions—not to mention the presentation of the $10,000 award for “Fan Favorite.” And for every sweet moment of reconciliation, there’s another that makes you squirm with guilty pleasure. As Cohen says of the Season 1 reunion, “It was like Jerry Springer: totally disturbing, but totally compelling.”Reunions
Fan Favorites
Don’t have what it takes to snag the title of 
Top Chef? There is one safety net in place 
to insure that not everybody but the winner goes home empty-handed.
 
The race for Fan Favorite and its $10,000 prize—voted 
on by viewers via BravoTV.com and text message—has become one of the more exciting 
Top Chef  subplots. In per-
haps the least surprising development ever, charmer Sam Talbot won in Season 2, while Season 3 featured a much 
closer race between Casey Thompson and Dale Levitski. In the end it went to Casey, giving her some consolation for her ﬂ  ubbed ﬁ  nale.
  Season 1 
  Reunion
Most uncomfortable moment: Tiffani Faison leaves the stage in tears. 
Happiest moments: 
Stephen Asprinio makes a surprisingly tender apology to Candice Kumai; Miguel “Chunk le Funk” Morales farts, and the editors, for once, leave it in.  Watch What  
  Happens 
  Special
Most uncomfortable moments: Padma Lakshmi claims to have gotten 
“heavy” during Season 2; Cliff Crooks 
has to explain the “hair-shaving” incident. 
Happiest moments: 
Viewing a tape of the immortal Jacques Pépin showing Ilan Hall the real meaning of “Top Chef”; Michael Midgley in a tux.  Season 3 
  Reunion
Most uncomfortable moments: The look on Casey Thompson’s face when C.J. Jacobsen offers to make out with her; Howie Kleinberg sheds a tear. 
Happiest moment: 
Cohen says to Hung Huynh, “So, a lot of people watching the show thought you were kind of an @$!hole.”1 2 3SAM CASEY
REUNIONS      245aioli  (“ay-OH-lee” or “i-OH-lee”)
A thick, cold, mayonnaise-like sauce that 
originated in Provence, in southern France, often served with simply cooked or steamed vegetables and ﬁ  sh.
al dente (“al-DEN-tay”)
Literally “to the tooth” in Italian, “al dente” describes food—most commonly pasta or rice—that is cooked through but still ﬁ  rm, 
offering slight resistance when chewed, and not soft or mushy at all. When cooking pasta, be sure to start tasting pieces well before the recommended cooking time is up: as soon as it loses its raw taste and the center is no longer bright white, it’s done. 
amuse-bouche  (“ah-MOOZE boosh”)
Literally “mouth amuser” in French. A small, 
one- or two-bite-sized dish served just before the main part of a meal. 
antipasto  (“ahn-tee-PAHS-toe”)
Literally “before the meal” in Italian. A selec-
tion of hors d’oeuvres usually featuring cured meats, cheeses, simply grilled or marinated vegetables at room temperature, and olives. 
back/front of the house
“Back of the house” is a phrase used in the restaurant business to describe the kitchen area, presided over by the executive chef; the “front of the house” is the dining room and customer waiting area, presided over by the maître d’ or host.beignet  (“ben-YAY”)
Refers to a doughnut popular in south-
ern Louisiana—a deep-fried, yeast-raised rectangle (no hole), dusted liberally with confectioners’ sugar. 
blanch
To cook, usually very brieﬂ  y, in boiling water. 
Vegetables are often blanched to loosen their 
skins for peeling or to soften them before cooking them further by another method. 
braise (“BRAYZ”)
To brown in fat, then cook slowly in liquid at 
low heat. brûlée  (“broo-LAY”)
In informal use, to caramelize the surface of 
a food (as in crème brûlée) with a kitchen torch, salamander grill, or oven broiler.
caramelize
To heat until the sugars in a food liquefy and 
turn brown.
carpaccio (“car-PAH-chi-oh”)
Thinly sliced (and sometimes pounded) food 
served raw and simply garnished. The classic Italian carpaccio is beef or another land-based protein, but restaurateurs now use “carpaccio” to refer to seafood, vegetables, 
or fruit prepared in the same manner.
ceviche  (“seh-VEE-chay”)
A South American dish of raw ﬁ  sh or other 
seafood tossed with citrus juice and fresh 
herbs and vegetables such as hot chiles, tomatoes, scallions, and cilantro. charcuterie  (“shar-COOT-eh-ree”)
A selection of cured meats served as an appetizer or ﬁ  rst course, often accompanied 
by cornichons or other pickled vegetables and occasionally a wedge of cheese and bread.
chiffonade  (“shiff-on-AHD”)
To cut leafy greens or herbs into very thin rib-
bons. To chiffonade basil, for example, stack 
the leaves, roll them into a tight cigarlike roll, and cut across the roll into thin strips. 
clarify
To remove impurities or sediment from 
a liquid. 
conﬁ  t (“con-FEE”)
Food cooked slowly in deep fat. Traditionally, 
“conﬁ  t” refers to duck-leg quarters cooked in 
duck or goose fat.consommé (“kon-suh-MAY”)
A crystal-clear meat, ﬁ  sh, or vegetable broth. 
To clarify the broth, egg whites are added 
and the broth is brought to a boil; the egg 
whites form a “raft” on the surface of the liquid that attracts impurities that can then be discarded.
daikon  (“DIE-con”)
A large, white-ﬂ  eshed Asian radish with white 
or black skin. deglaze
To add a liquid (often wine) to a hot pan in 
which food is being or has been sautéed, stirring to scrape up any of the browned bits of food in the bottom of the pan, which add ﬂ avor and body to the dish or sauce.
demi-glace  (“DEH-mee-glahs”)
Brown sauce (also known as “sauce espag-nole”) that has been combined with a splash of sherry or Madeira and reduced until thick. 
ﬂ ambé (“ﬂ ahm-BAY”)
To ignite the alcohol in a mixture using a long 
lighter or kitchen match.
fold
To very gently incorporate one ingredient or 
mixture into another. 
gelée  (“jeh-LAY”)
Loosely used, a jelled or jellylike sauce.
jicama  (“HEE-kah-mah”)
A round root vegetable with creamy white, 
crisp ﬂ  esh and light brown skin. Jicama can 
be eaten raw or cooked and is common in Latin American dishes.
julienne (“joo-lee-EHN”)
To cut into long, thin strips. 
246   GLOSSARY“It Is What It Is”
  A Top Chef  Glossary 
Maybe you missed the food words 
day in French class, or found yourself scratching your head while watching chefs and judges babble on about 
sous-vide  this and amuse  that.
High-level cooking has its own special language of 
precise terms (and strange pronunciations) that might seem mysterious—until now. That macaroni’s not burnt, it’s brûléed! Kobe (“KOH-bee”)
An extremely expensive, high-grade type of 
beef from cattle raised to exacting standards in Kobe, Japan. The animals are fed a special diet that includes beers, and are massaged regularly with sake. 
the line
Where the food for each restaurant order is cooked, staffed by line cooks and usually the sous-chef. The line is made up of several sta-tions, such as sauté, fryer, grill, and salad. 
mandoline
A manual slicing tool used in professional kitchens. Its adjustable blades make quick work of slicing fruits or vegetables paper thin, cutting them into perfectly uniform julienne strips or matchsticks, or making wafﬂ  e cuts. 
mignonette  (“meen-yon-EHT”)
Traditionally made with red wine vinegar, 
minced shallots, cracked black pepper, salt, and sometimes parsley, mignonette sauce is a classic accompaniment to raw oysters and other shellﬁ  sh.
minceTo cut into very small pieces—as small as 
possible without pureeing. To mince garlic or fresh herbs, ﬁ  rst chop roughly with a chef’s 
knife, then hold the tip of the knife on the cutting board with your palm while you rock the blade over the food, moving it back and forth, always keeping the knife in contact with the board.  
mise en place  (“MEEZ-on-plahs”)
Literally “set in place” in French. “Mise en 
place” refers to the organized chef’s practice of preparing in advance all the ingredients and tools that will be needed to make a dish or a meal and arranging them in a logical way in the kitchen.
moi (“MOY”)
A ﬁ sh indigenous to Hawaii that is also 
known as Paciﬁ  c threadﬁ  sh. Moi is similar to 
sea bass in texture and ﬂ  avor.
mojo  (“MO-ho”)
In Cuban cooking, “mojo” refers to a sauce of 
olive oil, citrus (such as sour orange) juice, and garlic. Other Caribbean cultures use the term to describe various hot sauces contain-ing chiles.
morcilla  (“more-SEE-yah”)
Spanish blood sausage commonly made of 
pork meat and fat, pig’s blood, and rice or onions.offal  (“OFF-uhl”)
Also known as “variety meats,” the organs, glands, tail, feet, snout, tongue, and other parts of the animal that are today relatively uncommon in Western kitchens.
pan roast
To roast in a pan. A meat or vegetable can be 
seared in an ovenproof pan on the stovetop, then transferred to the oven to ﬁ  nish cook-
ing. Informally, “pan roasting” can refer to meat or vegetables that are cooked (in very little fat) on the stovetop over high heat. 
poach
To cook food (usually meat or ﬁ  sh) in barely 
simmering water or another liquid. 
poi (“POY”)
A staple of the Hawaiian diet, poi is cooked 
and mashed taro. Eaten fresh, it is mild tasting with a pasty texture; after a few 
days, poi starts to ferment and become desirably sour.
poke  (“PO-keh”)
A Hawaiian appetizer of cubed raw seafood 
(commonly ahi tuna) tossed with seaweed, roasted and ground kukui nuts (candlenuts), tomato, green onion, shoyu (a Japanese soy sauce), or other ingredients.
puree
To chop or mash a food until it achieves a 
smooth, uniform consistency.
reduce
To cook a liquid at a brisk simmer or boil in 
order to evaporate it, thickening and concen-trating its ﬂ  avor. 
roulade  (“roo-LAUD”)
Thin slices of meat (such as beef) rolled 
around a ﬁ  lling, then cooked and sliced.
saffronThe dried stigmas of the saffron ﬂ  ower, used 
as a spice. Saffron has a strong ﬂ  avor and 
lends a distinctive yellow color to dishes such as paella, risotto, and bouillabaisse.
sauté
To cook food in a small amount of fat in a 
shallow pan or skillet on the stovetop, stirring frequently.
sear
To cook over high heat in order to quickly 
brown the exterior of a piece of food (usually meat or ﬁ  sh).semifreddo (seh-mee-FRAY-doh)
Literally “half cold” in Italian. A dessert that is 
partially frozen custard, fruit or other gelatos, coffee, and so on.
sommelier  (“suh-mel-YAY”)
A trained and experienced wine specialist. 
Working at a restaurant, the sommelier is 
responsible for buying and storing wines for the restaurant’s cellar, and will work with the chef to pair wines (and sometimes beers and spirits) with dishes on the menu.
sous-chef (“SOO-shef”)
In a restaurant kitchen, the executive chef’s 
second in command. The sous-chef oversees the line cooks and does much of the actual cooking, planning, scheduling, and ordering for the kitchen.
sous vide  (“soo-VEED”)
Literally “under vacuum” in French. A method 
of cooking food in vacuum-sealed plastic bags submerged in a bath of water at a care-fully maintained temperature. 
succo  (“SOOK-oh”)
An Italian word for “juice,” usually applied to 
vegetable or fruit juices (as opposed to meat juices, or 
sugo ).
sweetbreadsThe thymus glands of a calf or lamb.
tartare (“tar-TAR”)
Diced beef or ﬁ  sh served raw, with various 
toppings and seasonings. thermal immersion circulator
A machine in which vacuum-sealed food is cooked in a water bath that is circulating at a precisely deﬁ  ned temperature.
trufﬂ  e
A variety of underground mushroom of the genus 
Tuber . “Trufﬂ  e” can also refer to a con-
fection made of chocolate ganache formed into balls and either left plain, dusted with cocoa, or encased in a chocolate shell.
truss
To tie a whole chicken or other fowl with 
butcher’s twine or kitchen string so that its shape remains compact and cooks evenly.
tuile  (“TWEEL”)
A crisp, thin cookie. As soon as the cookies 
come out of the oven, they are often removed from the baking sheet and draped over a curved surface (such as a rolling pin), where they cool and harden into a rounded shape.
GLOSSARY      247A
Aboumrad, Elia, 39, 181, 181, 193, 222 
profile, 130, 130–131, 131
Adrià, Ferran, 126, 206, 216
Aioli, 246  Al dente, 246Alcohol, 22, 41, 
114, 114–115, 177 , 184, 185
Allen, Ted, 11, 24, 31, 53, 73, 84, 93, 155, 207 , 
209 
profile, 32 Quickfire, 32
Almonds 
marcona, 78 spinach-almond pesto, 
148, 149 
whipped cream, 40
Ame, 35
Amuse-bouche, 191, 246Antipasto, 246Apple cider sauce, 
112, 113
Apples 
apple brandy sauce, 114, 114–115  
apple cider sauce, 112, 113 
apple brandy sauce, 114, 114–115 
seared scallops, foie gras, pain perdu  
and, 170 strawberry apple crisp, 236, 
237 
tarts, 226–227 , 227 
three-apple fennel salad, 112, 113 
warm apple compote, 226–227 , 227
Applying heat, 200
Aqua, 35Armstrong, Govind, 35As You Like It catering, 134Ash, John, 35Asparagus, 73, 140, 
141
Asprinio, Stephen, 60, 111, 181, 181, 244 
profile, 60–61
Aura, 35Avocado, 86, 87 . 
See also  Guacamole
B
Back/front of house, 246Bacon, 93 Bacon-wrapped shrimp with cheese grits/
chipotle-tomato butter sauce, 93
Baked escargot in their shells, 80
Bananas, 41, 235Banana scallops, banana guacamole/ 
chocolate ice cream, 235
The Barbecue! Bible  (Raichlen), 31
Bardeen, Lia, 86, 219 
bio, 219
Barton G. The Restaurant, 34Basil oil, 168, 
169
Batali, Mario, 210, 213Bayless, Rick, 210Beaman, Andrea, 64, 
64
Beans 
grilled sea, 78, 79
Becerra, Camille, 219, 219
Becker, Ethan, 31Becker, Marion Rombauer, 31Beef 
carpaccio, 
70, 71 
kobe short ribs, 98, 98–99 
kobe strip loin, 98, 98–99 
steak, 41, 108
Beef carpaccio with watercress/fried  
capers/shiitake broth, 70, 71
Beignet, 246Bernstein, Michelle, 34, 215, 223Berries, 40. 
See also Strawberries 
blackberries, 92 
cream tart, 226–227 , 227 
low-fat berry cheesecake, 240, 241 
raspberry coulis, 230, 231 
strawberry apple crisp, 236, 237
Berry cream tart, 226–227 , 227
Berwick, Frances, 9
Birdsong, Sandee, 218, 218
Bistro Cooking (Wells), 31
Bistro Jeanty, 35Bittman, Mark, 31Blackberries, 92Black Forest ham, 
46, 47Black Forest ham/egg bundle with corn/leek 
ragout on rustic toast, 46, 47Black truffle 
burger with taleggio cheese, tomato, radic-
chio, 102
Black truffle/Parmesan linguine with kale, 
tomato confit, grilled chicken, 144, 144–145
Blais, Richard, 235
Blanch, 246Blini with kona coffee “caviar”/Hawaiian 
chocolate mousse, 229
Blow Out , 8
Blue Ginger, 34Blum, Marcy, 35, 52Borsich, Otto, 136, 
136
Bouley, David, 208Boulud, Daniel, 35, 73, 208Bourdain, Anthony, 35, 115, 118–119, 
119, 125, 
151, 156, 201, 214, 242
Bowen, Clay, 119, 218 
bio, 218
Bracco, Lorraine, 35, 53Braised pork shoulder in sour orange mojo 
with yucca/pickled onions, 97
Braised pork shoulder with tomato  
marmalade, 77
Braising, 77 , 97 , 
98, 98–99, 109, 177 , 246
Brasserie Les Halles, 35Bravo network, 8–9, 242, 244Breakfast/lunch/dinner waffle with ham/
cheese/ fried egg, 
38, 39
Brûlée, 246Bruni, Frank, 55Budo, 35Bulgarelli, Stephen, 35, 187Burgers 
black truffle, 102 
shrimp, 166
Burns, James, 128
Butternut squash puree, 160, 
161
C
Can openers, 22Canora, Jimmy, 35
248    indexIndexCapers, 70, 71
Caramelize, 246
Carmellini, Andrew, 217Carpaccio, 246Carrots 
maroon, 78  
loaf, 191
Cauliflower 
fingerling mash, 
104, 104–105 
gratin, 114, 114–115
Celadon, 35
Ceviche, 246Champagne, uncorking, 61Charcuterie, 246Cheese, 39, 76, 
184, 185, 194, 195, 232, 233 
gouda, 94, 95 
grits, 93 
mozzarella, 186, 186 
Parmesan, 144, 144–145 
taleggio, 102
Cheesecake, 240, 241
Chefs. See also specific chefs  
kinship among, 8 sous-chef, 247
Cherries, 142
Chez Panisse Vegetables  (Waters), 31
Chicken, 140, 141, 143 
grilled, 144, 144–145 
poached black, 153 in red curry sauce, 147 rigatoni, 152, 
152 
roasted, 154, 155
Chicken rigatoni with bell peppers, kalamata 
olives, sun-dried tomatoes, 152, 152
Chiffonade, 246
Child, Julia, 31, 135, 208Chiles rellenos, 188, 
189
Chimichurri 
Asian, 172–173 
mint, 187 , 187
China Grill, 35
Chinois, 22Chipotle aioli, 45Chipotle-tomato butter sauce, 93Chocolate 
cakes with vanilla crème fraîche, raspberry  
 coulis, nougatine tuiles, 230, 
231 
cold hot-chocolate shots, 238–239 ice cream, 235
Chocolate mousse, 228 
Hawaiian, 229
Chodorow, Jeffrey, 35, 53
Churchill, Marisa, 136, 
136Cilantro, 191Citizen Cake, 35Clams, 78, 
79, 164, 165
Clarify, 246Coconut curry, 176Coffee, 167 
Kona “caviar,” 229 
whipped cream, 228
Cohen, Andy, 10, 14–15, 180, 242, 244
Cole, Greg, 35Colicchio, Tom, 9, 
9, 11, 24, 24–25, 26, 31, 34, 
58, 80–81, 99, 106, 118, 127 , 129, 152, 160, 
168, 190, 201, 217 , 220, 221 
profile, 26–27 Quickfire, 26
Colorado rack of lamb with ratatouille/ 
sauce vert, 
90, 91
Company American Bistro, 126
Conant, Scott, 35, 162Confit, 246Consommé, 246Cookbooks, 31. 
See also specific cookbooks
Cooking locations, 201Coolidge, Jennifer, 35Coq au vin with whipped potatoes, sautéed 
ramps, asparagus, 140, 
141
Corn 
ragout, 46, 47 
sopes, 103
Corn sopes with char siu pork/pickled Asian 
slaw, 103
Couscous, 176Cowin, Dana, 34, 35Crabcakes Benedict 
48, 49
Cracking the Coconut: Classic Thai Home 
Cooking  (Yu), 31
Craft of Cooking  (Colicchio), 31
Craft restaurants, 26–27Cremini and apple brandy sauce, 
114, 114–115
Crêpes filled with almond whipped cream/
strawberries, 40
Crooks, Cliff, 132, 133, 181, 181, 244 
profile, 132–133
Cucumber, 86, 87
Culinary mistakes, 200–201Curried lamb kabobs, 
116, 117
Curry, 147 
chicken in red, 147 
coconut, 176 lamb kabobs, 
116, 117 
sweet potato mash, 198, 199
Cutforth, Dan, 8–9, 14, 180D
Daikon, 85, 246
Davis, Mitchell, 31Deconstructed falafel, 190Deep-fried oysters with lemon cream, 84Deglaze, 246Demi-glace, 22, 246Desserts, 201 
banana scallops, banana guacamole/ 
 chocolate ice cream, 235 
blini with kona coffee “caviar”/  Hawaiian chocolate mousse, 229 
chocolate cakes with vanilla crème fraîche,   raspberry coulis, nougatine tuiles,  
 230, 
231 
fig tart with cheeses, 232, 233 
low-fat berry cheesecake, 240, 241 
marshmallow and cookie ice cream, 234 potato cannoli with coffee whipped cream/   chocolate mousse, 228 
strawberry apple crisp with hazelnut   whipped cream, 236, 
237 
tarts, 226–227 , 227 
total orgasm lemon pastry puffs,   tapioca pillows, cold hot-chocolate  
 shots, 238–239
Dieterle, Harold, 
54, 55, 108, 167 , 176,  
242, 244 profile, 54–55
DiSpirito, Rocco, 34–35, 72, 242
Douglas, Tom, 128Doumani, Lissa, 35Duck, 146, 
146
Dufresne, Wylie, 35, 128, 229Duo of beef with kobe strip loin/braised kobe 
short ribs with white polenta, 
98, 98–99
E
Easy Exotic  (Lakshmi), 31
Ecuadorian ceviche with popcorn cakes,  
174, 175
Edelstein, Micah, 218, 218
Egg vinaigrette, 73Eggs, 
38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 46, 47
Eggs in a Hole, 42, 43
Elimination Challenges 
Season 1, 50–51 
Season 2, 120–121  Season 3, 202–203
Elk, 
104, 104–105
English, Todd, 34
Escargot, 80Espresso shrimp flambéed with Sambuca 
index      249with roasted hazelnut/peanut paste, 167 
Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking   
(Hazan), 31
F
Faison, Tiffani, 56, 180, 180, 244 
profile, 56–57
Falafel, 190
Falkner, Elizabeth, 35Fats, 176. 
See also  Oils
Fennel, 112, 113, 153
Fennel-crusted pork chops with three-apple 
fennel salad/apple cider sauce, 112, 113
Fernandez, Carlos, 242 
profile, 135
Feuds, 180–181Fideos with clams/saffron, 164, 
165
Fig tart with cheeses, 232, 233
Flambé, 167 , 246Flaxseeds, 240Fleur de Lys restaurant, 34, 35, 66Foam, 127Foie gras, 142 
leftover, 171 
sauce, 108 seared scallops, pain perdu, apples and, 170–171
Fold, 246
Food & Wine  magazine, 30, 34, 35
“Food Porn” area, 12
The Food You Want to Eat  (Allen), 31
Fowl 
black chicken, 153 chicken, 140, 
141, 143, 144, 144–145,  
 147 , 152, 152, 154, 155 
duck, 146, 146 
foie gras, 108, 142, 170–171 ostrich, 150–151 pheasant, 143 quail, 142 turkey, 149, 
149
Fraser, Betty, 47 , 119, 134, 181, 181 
profile, 134
French Culinary Institute, 34, 35, 140
Fruit Kabobs with honeyed red/blue  
yogurt, 44
Fruits, 44, 187 , 187. See also specific fruits
Frumkin, Maria, 35, 227
G
Gaines-Alt, Mia, 49, 137 
bio, 137Gazpacho, 162Gelée, 246Geoduck, 153Gerrard, Alan, 212Gnocchi, 201Goin, Suzanne, 35, 128, 191Gouda, 
94, 95
Gramercy Tavern, 26Grand Marnier, 41Grapes, 72, 
72, 163, 163
Grilled cheese with portobello mushrooms/ 
roasted red pepper soup, 194, 195
Grilled pepper salad, 86, 87
Grits, 93Grub Restaurant, 134Guacamole, 
banana, 235
Guisse, Bernard, 212Guy Savoy, 207
H
Halibut with grapes/fried leeks, 163, 163
Hall, Ilan, 24, 45, 80, 124, 125, 181, 181, 244 
profile, 124–125
Hall, Raphael Ray, 124Ham, 
38, 39, 46, 47 , 76. See also  Bacon; 
Black Forest ham; Prosciutto
Hama hama oysters with mango, split 
prawns, hamachi, daikon, 85
Hamachi, 82, 83, 85
Hamachi Poke with pineapple poi/ 
taro chips, 82, 83
Ham/cheese mini quiches with pesto, 76Hazan, Marcella, 31Hazelnut 
peanut paste, 167 
whipped cream, 236, 
237
Hefter, Lee, 35
Herb spaetzle, 142Herbs. 
See specific herbs
Hi-Life Café, 135Hill, Brian, 64, 64Hill, Jefferson, 35, 52Honey, 44Hot-chocolate shots, 238–239
How to Cook Everything  (Bittman), 31
Hudson, Cindy, 215Humphries, Tom, 35Hung Huynh, 24, 31, 
41, 73, 153, 206 ,  
207, 244 knife skills, 207 
profile, 206–207
I
I Like You: Hospitality Under the Influence  
(Sedaris), 31
Ice cream, 66 
chocolate, 235 marshmallow and cookie, 234
Ivan, Robert, 35
Izard, Stephanie, 92
J
Jacobsen, C.J., 11, 40, 40, 119, 145, 213, 244 
profile, 213
Jacuri, Ramiro, 124
Jacques Pépin’s Complete Techniques   
(Pépin and Perer), 31
Jaffrey, Madhur, 31Jeanty, Philippe, 35Jicama, 246 
slaw, 172–173
Joel, Katie Lee, 10, 62, 
221 
profile, 33
Joy of Cooking  (Rombauer/Becker, M./ 
Becker, E.), 31
Julia’s Kitchen at COPIA, 35Julienne, 246
K
Kabobs 
curried lamb, 116, 117 
defined, 44 
fruit, 44
Kafka, Barbara, 31
Kalamata olives, 152, 152
Kale, 144, 144–145
Kathy Griffin: My Life on the D-List , 8
Keane, Douglas, 35Keller, Hubert, 35, 52, 54, 66, 111, 
221, 229
Keller, Thomas, 126, 206, 208, 210, 214, 217Kerr, Graham, 135Kim chee, 109
Kitchen Sense: More Than 600 Recipes to 
Make You a Great Home Cook  (Davis), 31
Kleinberg, Howie, 102, 118, 180, 180, 214, 244 
profile, 214
Knife skills, 206Kobe, 
98, 98–99, 247
Kona coffee “caviar,” 229Kumai, Candice, 
65, 181, 181, 244 
250    indexbio, 65
Kunz, Gray, 214
L
Lakshmi, Padma, 10, 12, 24, 24, 28–29 , 31,  
41, 223, 244 
profile, 28 
Quickfire, 28
Lamb 
Colorado rack of, 90, 91 
kabobs, 116, 117 
medallions, 92  soup, 110, 
110
Larousse Gastronomique: The World’s  
Greatest Culinary Encyclopedia , 31
Lasagna with two sauces/colorful vegetable 
medley, 196, 196–197
Lau lau, 81
Lauric acid, 176Lawson, Nigella, 134Le Bernardin, 35Le Cirque, 35, 207Lee, Christopher, 217Lee, Ken, 33, 
64 
bio, 64
Lee, Matt, 31Lee, Tad, 31Leeks, 
46, 47 , 163, 163
The Lee Bros. Southern Cooking  (Lee, M./
Lee, T.), 31
Leftovers, 145Lemon cream, 84Lemon pastry puffs, 238–239Lemon-thyme cream sauce, 168, 
169
Levitski, Dale, 24, 72, 208 , 209 , 244, 244 
profile, 208–209
Limes, 86, 87
The line, 247Lipsitz, Jane, 8, 
13
Lo, Anita, 216Low-fat berry cheesecake, 240, 
241
L’Scorpion, 35Luce, Keith, 35Lunetta, Raphael, 35
M
Macadamia nut gazpacho, 162Macaroni and cheese, 
184, 185
Maccioni, Sirio, 34, 35Madame S., 239
Madhur Jaffrey’s Quick & Easy Indian  Cooking  (Jaffrey), 31
Magical Elves Productions, 8, 11Mair, Sara, 
42, 119, 215 
profile, 215
Make Me a Supermodel , 8
Malarkey, Brian, 118, 173, 212 
profile, 212
Mandarin Oriental, 63Mandoline, 247Mango, 85 
couscous, 176 
cream sauce, 
48, 49 
tarts, 226–227 , 227
Manrique, Laurent, 35, 52, 65
Maple foam, 170Marcona almonds, 78Maroon carrots, 78Marshmallow and cookie ice cream, 234Martin, Dave, 
58, 180, 180, 185, 221 
Dave-isms, 59 
profile, 58–59
Mayonnaise 
cornichon, 186, 186 
spicing up, 117
Mazar, Debi, 35
McDevitt, James, 35Meat. 
See also  Offal; Sweetbreads 
bacon, 93 
beef, 70, 71, 98, 98–99 
elk, 104, 104–105 
ham, 39, 47 , 76 lamb, 
90, 91, 92, 110, 110–111, 116, 117 
pork, 77 , 81, 97 , 103, 109, 112, 113, 148, 149 
prosciutto, 100, 101 
steak, 41, 108 sweetbreads, 96 veal, 
114, 114–115
Michael’s Genuine Food and Drink, 34
Michy’s, 34Midgley, Michael, 119, 
137, 168, 244 
bio, 137
Mignonette, 247Mina, Michael, 35Mince, 247Ming Tsai, 34Minoprio, Shauna, 11, 
13, 131, 133
Mirin-glazed sea bass, 178, 179
Mise en place, 247Moi, 162, 247Mojo, 247Molecular gastronomy, 127Molten chocolate cakes with vanilla crème fraîche, raspberry coulis, nougatine tuiles, 
230, 
231
Morales, Miguel, 63, 190, 239, 244 
profile, 63
Morcilla, 81, 247
Morcilla/squid lau lau, 81Moroccan cubanos, 106, 
107
Mozzarella, 186, 186
Mushroom ragout, 146, 146
Mushrooms, 146, 146 
button, 192, 193 
cremini, 114, 114–115 
maitake, 92  
portobello, 192, 193, 194, 195
Mussels, 176
Mustards Grill, 35
N
The New American Cheese  (Werlin), 31
The New Book of Middle Eastern Food  
(Roden), 31
Nguyen, Sara, 216, 216
Nieporent, Drew, 35, 233Norman’s, 34Nougatine tuiles, 230, 
231
Nusson, Andy, 124
O
Octopus, 177Offal, 66, 247Oils 
basil, 168, 
169 
olive, 22, 86, 87 
sesame, 191 
truffle, 201
Olive oil–poached shrimp with avocado,  
cucumber, lime, grilled pepper salad,  86, 
87
Oliver, Jamie, 134
Olives, 73, 86, 87 
kalamata, 152, 152
Olives (restaurant), 34Orecchiette, 
148, 149
Ostrich, 150–151Oysters 
deep-fried, 84 
selecting, 85
P
Pain perdu, 170, 171
Pan roasting, 142, 247
index      251Pan-roasted quail with herb spaetzle,  
cherries, foie gras, 142
Papaya, 41
Parks, Lisa, 44, 65 
bio, 65
Parsnip puree, 108Pasta 
chicken rigatoni, 152, 
152 
fideos with clams/saffron, 164, 165 
lasagna with two sauces/colorful  
 vegetable medley, 196, 196–197 
orecchiette with turkey/pork meatballs/  spinach-almond pesto, 
148, 149 
Parmesan linguine with kale, tomato   confit, grilled chicken, 144, 144–145 
red wine-braised angel hair with   octopus, 177 
truffle/cognac cream macaroni and   cheese, 
184, 185
Paulino, Joey, 180, 180, 219 
bio, 219
Pawlcyn, Cindy, 35
Pecans, 170Peel, Mark, 213Pépin, Jacques, 31, 244Peppers 
bell, 152, 
152 
grilled pepper salad, 86, 87 
roasted pepper sauce, 188, 189 
roasted red pepper soup, 194, 195
Perilla, 54–55Pesto, 76 
spinach-almond, 
148, 149
Pheasant, 143Pickled Asian slaw, 103Pickled onions, 97The Pineapple Room, 35Pistachios, 92Pizza, 100, 
101
Poached baby Manila clams with grilled sea 
beans, 78, 78
Poached black chicken/raw geoduck with 
fennel, 153
Poaching, 78, 78, 153, 247
Poi, 82, 83, 247
Poke, 82, 83, 83, 247
Polenta, 98, 98
Popcorn cakes, 174, 175
Pork, 109 
braised shoulder, 77 , 97 
char siu, 103 fennel-crusted chops, 
112, 113 
meatballs, 148, 149 morcilla, 81
Portale, Alfred, 35, 219
Portobello/button mushroom crème with 
walnuts, 192, 193
Potato cannoli with coffee whipped cream/ 
chocolate mousse, 228
Potatoes, 143 
cannoli, 228 
cauliflower fingerling mash, 104, 104–105 
curried sweet potato mash, 198, 199 
whipped, 140, 141
Prawns, 85
Press Restaurant, 35Prime New York strip steaks with foie gras 
sauce/parsnip puree, 108
Project Runway , 8
Prosciutto, 100, 101
Prosciutto/cheese pizza, 100, 101
Puree, 247 
butternut squash, 160, 161 
parsnip, 108 
ramps, 143 roasted mango, 226–227 , 
227
Purslane, 72, 72
Q
Quail, 142
Queer Eye for the Straight Guy , 32
Quiche, 76
Quickfire, 10 
of Allen, 32 
of Colicchio, 26 of Lakshmi, 28 of Simmons, 30
Quinoa pilaf with curried sweet potato  
mash, 198, 
199
R
Radicchio, 102
Raichlen, Steven, 31Ramps, 140, 
141 
puree, 143
Ras al-hanout, 106Raspberry coulis, 230, 
231
Ratatouille, 90, 91
The Real Housewives of Orange County , 8
Red wine–braised angel hair pasta with  
cold octopus, tomato succo with octopus 
frit, 177
Reduce, 247
Restaurant wars, 55Rice, 109Ripert, Eric, 35, 104, 164, 214, 216, 
223
Risotto, 150–151Roast garlic, 197Roasted chicken with vegetables, 
154, 155
Roasted lamb medallions with maitake  
mushrooms, braised pistachios, and  
blackberry, 92 
Roasted mango puree tart, 226–227 , 227
Roasted pepper sauce, 188, 189
Roasted red pepper soup, 194, 195
Roasting: A Simple Art  (Kafka), 31
Robinson, Joel, 126
Robuchon, Joel, 210, 216Roden, Claudia, 31Rodgers, Judy, 31Rombauer, Irma S., 31Rosenberg, Hosea, 170–171, 
171
The Rotunda at Neiman Marcus, 35Roulade, 247Roy’s, 35
S
Saffron, 164, 247Salads 
grilled pepper, 86, 
87 
jicama slaw, 172–173 
pickled Asian slaw, 103 summer fruit, 187 , 
187 
three-apple fennel, 112, 113 
tomato, 74, 75
Salami vs. salumi, 95
Salami/gouda panini on sun-dried  
tomato roll, 95, 95
Salt/pepper, 22
Sambuca, 167Samuelson, Marcus, 212Sandwiches. 
See also  Burgers 
Black Forest ham/egg bundle, 46, 47 
grilled cheese with portobello mushrooms,  
 194, 195 
Moroccan cubanos, 106, 107 
salami/gouda panini, 94, 95
Sauce vert, 90, 91
Sauces 
abalone, 150–151 apple cider, 
112, 113 
chipotle-tomato butter sauce, 93 cremini and apple brandy, 114, 
114 
foie gras, 108 lasagna, 
196, 196–197 
lemon-thyme cream, 168, 169 
mango cream, 48, 49 
252    indexred curry, 147 
roasted pepper, 188, 189 
sauce vert, 90, 91 
sweet chili glaze, 172
Sausage 
pheasant, 143 shrimp, 172–173
Sauté, 140, 
141, 247
Scallion beignets, 96
Scallop mousse/shrimp burger with  
tangerine, 166
Scallops, 72, 72, 166, 170–171, 172–173
Scallops and foie gras with pain perdu and 
apples, seared, 170–171
Scargle, Victor, 35Schwartz, Michael, 34Sea bass, 172–173, 178, 
179
Sea bass, scallop, shrimp sausage with 
jicama slaw, sweet chili glaze, Asian  
chimichurri, 172–173
Seafood/fish 
abalone sauce, 150–151 clams, 78, 
79, 164, 165 
crabcakes, 48, 49 
escargot, 80 geoduck, 153 halibut, 163, 
163 
moi, 162 mussels, 176 octopus, 177 oysters, 84, 85 Poke, 
82, 83 
prawns, 85 red snapper, 160, 
161 
salmon, 168, 169 
scallops, 72, 72, 166, 170–171, 172–173 
sea bass, 172–173, 178, 179 
shrimp, 86, 87, 93, 166, 167 , 174, 175 
squid, 81 trout, 168, 
169 
tuna, 73
Seared elk loin with cauliflower/fingerling 
potato mash, pickled cauliflower, 104, 
104–105
Seared ostrich fillet with heirloom tomato 
risotto/abalone sauce, 150–151
Seared scallops and foie gras with pain perdu 
and apples, 170–171
Seared scallops with purslane/marinated 
grapes, 72, 72
Searing, 72, 72, 104, 104–105, 150–151, 247
Sedaris, Amy, 31
Season 1 
Elimination Challenges, 50–51 episode guide, 52–53 
finale, 221
Season 2 
Elimination Challenges, 120–121 episode guide, 122–123 finale, 222
 
Season 3 
Elimination Challenges, 202–203 episode guide, 204–205 finale, 223
Semifreddo, 247
Serwatka, Dave, 9, 10, 
13, 62
Sesame oil, 191Sestito, Cynthia, 65, 
65
Shafer, John, 35Shakes, 41
Shear Genius , 8
Shiitake broth, 70, 71Shima, Hiroshi, 35, 85Shinsei, 210Shrimp, 86, 
87, 167 , 174, 175 
bacon-wrapped, 93 
burgers, 166 sausage, 172–173
Silverton, Nancy, 213
Simmons, Gail, 9, 
11, 24–25, 30–31 , 61, 124, 
143, 170–171, 187 , 193, 197 , 211, 221, 236 
profile, 30–31 
Quickfire, 30
Smith-Malave, Josie, 137 , 137
Soltner, André, 34, 35
Sommelier, 247Sone, Hiro, 35Soups 
Colorado lamb, 110, 
110 
portobello/button mushroom crème  
 with walnuts, 192, 193 
roasted red pepper, 194, 195 
shiitake broth, 71
Sous vide, 247
Sous-chef, 247Sous-vide duck with truffle-scented broth/
mushroom ragout, 146, 
146
Spanish tortilla with chipotle aioli, 45Spicy braised Korean port with kim chee/
sticky rice, 109
Spicy coconut curry steamed mussels with 
mango couscous, 176
Spinach, 
148, 149, 187 , 187
Spinach-almond pesto, 148, 149
Spring harvest pheasant’s pie with chicken, 
pheasant sausage, potato, ramp puree, 143Sprissler, Emily, 136, 136
Squid, 81Sriracha, 22Starkman, Paul, 12Steak/eggs with papaya/banana/Grand  
Marnier shake, 41
Steamed red snapper with roasted  
butternut squash puree, 160, 
161
Steinhauer, Suyai, 136, 136
“Stew Room,” 11, 16Stock pots, 22Strawberries, 40, 236, 
237
Strawberry apple crisp with hazelnut 
whipped cream, 236, 237
Succo, 247Summer fruit salad with spicy mint  
chimichurri/spinach, 187 , 
187
Sunflower seed/carrot loaf with cilantro, 
sesame oil, Squirt®, 191
Supermarkets, 10, 66Sushi Roku, 35Sutra, 35Sweet chili glaze, 172Sweetbreads, 247 
in brine, 96
Sweetbread/scallion beignets with  
Chinese five-spice in soy broth, 96
T
Table 8, 35Talbot, Sam, 24, 25, 
167, 220 
profile, 128–129
Tangerines, 166
Tangy, Tart, Hot & Sweet  (Lakshmi), 31
Tapioca pillows, 238–239Taro chips, 
82, 83
Tartare, 247Tarts 
berry cream, 226–227 , 
227 
fig, 232, 233 
roasted mango puree, 226–227 , 227 
warm apple compote, 226–227 , 227
Tasting food, 200
T-Bone, 12Tempura vegetables/mozzarella with  
cornichon mayonnaise, 186, 
186
Terra, 35Terzoli, Frank, 
136, 137, 181, 181 
bio, 137
Thermal immersion circulator, 247
Think Like a Chef  (Colicchio), 31
index      253Thompson, Casey, 14, 71, 210, 211, 244, 244 
profile, 210–211
Three-apple fennel salad, 112, 113
Threesome of Colorado lamb, 110, 110–111
Timesavers, 91, 99, 104, 110, 150, 172
Toast, 46, 47
Tomatoes, 93, 102 
chipotle-tomato butter sauce, 93 
confit, 114, 114–115 
marmalade, 77 risotto, 150–151 succo, 177 sun-dried, 152, 
152 
sun-dried roll, 94, 95 
watermelon trio salad, 74, 75
Tongs, 22
Top Chef 
blog, 242–243 casting, 14–15 cooking up, 8–10 finales, 220–223 format, 10 guest judges, 34–35 Judges’ Table, 24–25, 25 kitchen, 16–17 , 
18–19  
pantry, 20–21  
preparing/managing, 11–13 restaurant wars, 55 reunions, 244–245 Season 1 episodes, 52–53 Season 2 episodes, 122–123 Season 3 episodes, 204–205  staples, 22–23 top feuds, 180–181
Top coif, 156–157
Top Design , 8
Torres, Jacques, 140
Tortillas, 45The total orgasm lemon pastry puffs, 
tapioca pillows, cold hot-chocolate shots, 
238–239
Town, 35
Tran Thuong, 206Trio of tarts, 226–227 , 
227
Trout/salmon with lemon-thyme cream 
sauce/basil oil, 168, 169
Truffle/cognac cream macaroni and cheese, 
184, 185Truffles, 102, 144, 144–145, 184, 185, 247 
broth, 146 
oil, 201
Truss, 247
Tuile, 247Tuna, 73Tuna tartare with niçoise olives/white      asparagus/egg vinaigrette, 73Turkey, 
148, 149
Turkey/pork meatballs with orecchiette 
pasta/spinach-almond pesto, 148, 149
V
Van Aken, Norman, 34Vanilla crème fraîche, 230, 
231
Veal medallions with cremini/apple brandy, 
cauliflower gratin, 114, 114–115
Vegetables, 154, 155, 196, 196–197 . See also 
specific vegetables  
tempura, 186, 186
Vending machines, 67 , 76Vigneron, Marcel, 74, 
83, 118, 127, 181,  
181, 229 
profile, 126–127
Vinaigrette, 73Vinegar, 22
W
Waffles, 39Walker, Jamie, 35Walnuts, 
192, 193
Warm apple compote tarts, 226–227 , 227“Watch What Happens,” 242Watercress, 
70, 71
Watermelon/tomato trio, 74, 75
Waters, Alice, 31, 126
The Way to Cook  (Child), 31
WD-50, 35Weiss, Barton G., 34Wells, Patricia, 31Werlin, Laura, 31Whipped cream, 40 
almond, 40 
coffee, 228 hazelnut, 236, 237Wilcox, Tre, III, 25, 
93, 145, 150, 217 
profile, 217
Wong, Alan, 35
Wong, Lee Anne, 11, 25, 62, 223 
profile, 62
Woodward, Kristin, 35
Work Out , 8
Y
Yakura, Mike, 35, 117 , 186Yamaguchi, Roy, 35Yogurt, 44Yu, Su-Mei, 31Yucca, 97
Z
Zahtar, 114Zakarian, Geoffrey, 35Zalaznick, Lauren, 8, 242, 244
The Zuni Cafe Cookbook  (Rodgers), 31
254    indexTABLE OF EQUIVALENTS      255The exact equivalents in the following tables have been 
rounded for convenience.
Liquid/Dry Measurements
 U.S.  Metric
1⁄4 teaspoon 1.25 milliliters
1⁄2 teaspoon 2.5 milliliters
 1 teaspoon 5 milliliters
 1 tablespoon (3 teaspoons) 15 milliliters
 1 ﬂ uid ounce (2 tablespoons) 30 milliliters
1⁄4 cup 60 milliliters
1⁄3 cup 80 milliliters
 1⁄2 cup 120 milliliters
 1 cup  240 milliliters 1 pint (2 cups) 480 milliliters 1 quart (4 cups, 32 ounces) 960 milliliters
 1 gallon (4 quarts) 3.84 liters
 1 ounce (by weight) 28 grams
 1 pound 448 grams
 2.2 pounds 1 kilogramLengths
U.S.  Metric
1⁄8 inch 3 millimeters
1⁄4 inch 6 millimeters
1⁄2 inch 12 millimeters
1 inch 2.5 centimeters
Oven Temperature
Fahrenheit Celsius Gas
 250º  120º 1⁄2
 275º  140º 1
 300º 150º 2
 325º  160º 3
 350º  180º 4
 375º  190º 5
 400º 200º 6
 425º  220º 7
 450º  230º 8
 475º  240º 9
 500º 260º 10Table of EquivalentsThis book was produced by
 
 
Melcher Media, Inc. 
124 West 13th Street 
New York, NY 10011 
www.melcher.com
Publisher  Charles Melcher
Associate Publisher  Bonnie Eldon
Editor in Chief  Duncan Bock  
 
Executive Editor Lia Ronnen
Associate Editor  Lauren Nathan
Editorial Assistant  Daniel Del Valle
Contributing Editor  William Bostwick  
 
Production Director  Kurt Andrews  
 
Designer  Jessi Rymill 
 
Food Stylist  Roscoe Betsill
Prop Stylist Deborah WilliamsAcknowledgments and Credits
256    creditsBRAVO’s success is built on creativity. We believe that there is creativity in the everyday  
passions that surround food, fashion, beauty, design, and pop culture—in other words,  
life as we and our viewers live it. It’s our job to find ways to represent creative energy in 
exceptionally engaging ways. Top Chef   is just one example of our viewers’ and on-line users’ 
constant craving for more—in this case more recipes, more stories about food, what it takes 
to be a chef and the behind-the-scenes intensity that surround food and those who make it. 
Together we have made Top Chef   the smashing achievement that it is, inside what has got  
to be the most fun, challenging, truly creative environment anyone could want on the job.
—Lauren Zalaznick, President BRAVO Media
Acknowledgments
Thanks to Jeff Zucker, Jeff Gaspin, and so many others at NBC Universal for their consistent 
support of BRAVO Media’s wish to come off the television screen, onto the web, and now into 
your kitchen. Who knows where you’ll find us next! 
Thanks to Ted Allen, Tom Colicchio, Padma Lakshmi, and Gail Simmons.
Thanks to the team at BRAVO: Frances Berwick, Cameron Blanchard, Melissa Bloom, Victoria 
Brody, Andrew Cohen, Johanna Fuentes, Neysa Gordon, Jason Klarman, Susan Malfa,  
Lauren McCollester, Lauren Miller, Kim Niemi, Jane Olson, Kate Pappa, Judith Randsell, 
Dave Serwatka, and Ellen Stone.
Thanks to the team at Magical Elves: Doneen Arquines, Rich Buhrman, Liz Cook,  
Dan Cutforth, Bill Egle, Gayle Gawlowski, Jane Lipsitz, Shauna Minoprio, Molly O’Rourke,  
Erin Rott, Nan Strait, Andrew Wallace, and Webb Weiman.
Thanks to the contestants who participated in this book: Elia Aboumrad, Stephen Asprinio, 
Cliff Crooks, Harold Dieterle, Tiffani Faison, Carlos Fernandez, Betty Fraser, Ilan Hall,  
Hung Huynh, C.J. Jacobsen, Howie Kleinberg, Dale Levitski, Sara Mair, Brian Malarkey,  
Dave Martin, Miguel Morales, Sara Nguyen, Sam Talbot, Casey Thompson, Marcel Vigneron, 
Tre Wilcox III, and Lee Anne Wong.
Thanks also to Cynthia Arntzen, Anthony Bourdain, Jennifer Daniel, Max Dickstein, Alissa 
Faden, Sheila Feren, Liam Flanagan, Pozelet Fleischman, Christina Grdovic, Bill LeBlond,  
Lisa Maione, Mark Miller, Robert Swanson, Alex Tart, Amy Treadwell, Rebecca Wiener,  
Carl Williamson, and Sonia Zala.
Thanks to all our sponsors, without whom Top Chef   would not be possible.
Photography and Illustration Credits
Carin Baer/BRAVO: p. 12; p. 24, top two images; p. 29, middle left; p. 31, top right; p. 32, bottom; p. 39; p. 45;  
p. 49; p. 80; p. 83; p. 127; p. 129; p. 131, top, bottom; p. 133, top; p. 167; p. 168; p. 181, Cliff, Ilan, Frank, Elia, 
Betty; p. 222; p. 229; p. 243, Harold; p. 244, Sam; 
Matthias Clamor/BRAVO: 
p. 214; p. 217; p. 218; 
Courtesy of 
Andy Cohen: 
p. 9, right; p. 11, bottom; p. 13, top left, top right, bottom right; p. 15; p. 24, bottom two images;  
Jennifer Daniel: 
p. 66–67; p. 200–201; 
Chuck Hodes/BRAVO: 
p. 1; p. 18–19; p. 20–21; p. 21–22; 
David Moir/
BRAVO: 
p. 9, left; p. 11, top; p. 33; p. 55; p. 57; p. 59; p. 61; p. 108; p. 111; p. 160; p. 180, Dave, Tiffani; p. 181, 
Stephen, Candice; p. 185; p. 221; p. 239; 
Barbara Nitke/BRAVO: 
p. 26; p. 27 , bottom right; p. 29, top right;  
p. 31, bottom left; p. 32, second image from top; p. 207; p. 223; p. 243, Tom, Rocco; 
Rafael Pichardo/BRAVO: 
p. 92; 
Giovanni Rufino/BRAVO: 
p. 243, Andy; p. 245; 
Scott Schafer/BRAVO: 
p. 124; p. 126; p. 128; p. 130; p. 132;  
p. 134; p. 135; p.136; p. 137; 
Courtesy of Dave Serwatka: 
p. 11, middle; p. 13, middle left; 
Virginia Sherwood/
BRAVO: 
p. 54; p. 56; p. 58; p. 60; p. 62–63; p. 64–65; p. 170; p. 206; p. 208; p. 210; p. 212; p. 213; p. 215;  
p. 216; p. 219; 
Isabella Vosmikova/BRAVO: 
p. 25; p. 27 , top right; p. 29, bottom left; p. 32, top; p. 125; p. 131;  
p. 133, bottom; p. 181, Marcel; 
Glenn Watson/BRAVO: 
p. 13; p. 27 , top middle, bottom left; p. 29, top left,  
bottom right; p. 30; p. 31, top left, bottom right; p. 32, third and fourth images from top; p. 40; p. 41; p. 42;  
p. 71; p. 86; p. 93; p. 102; p. 118; p. 145; p. 150; p. 153; p. 173; p. 180, Joey, Howie; p. 209; p. 211; p. 242; p. 244, 
Casey; 
Michael Yarish/BRAVO: 
p. 27 , top left; p. 28; p. 31, middle left; p. 133, middle; p. 240In association with