FANTASTIC 
BEASTS GOOSEBUMPS
HALLOWEEN HARRY POTTERA sorcerer from the world of J. K. Rowling, Newt 
Scamander is a “magizoologist,” a specialist in magical 
creatures, and also an alumnus of the Hogwarts School 
of Witchcraft and Wizardry. In the early twentieth 
century Newt travels over hill and dale to create 
a bestiary cataloguing magical creatures and their 
habitats and behaviors. Several animals escape when 
he makes a stopover in New York, risking exposing 
the magical community. 
Recipes on pages 64, 113.To read R. L. Stine’s Goosebumps  series is to enter into 
bewitched worlds populated by terrifying creatures 
(ghosts, werewolves . . . ) who lurk in the most 
unexpected places (mirrors, clocks . . .) or else right 
next to you (at the museum, fairground . . .). Among 
them is “Mr. Bad Boy,” the evil ventriloquist’s doll 
Slappy the Dummy. Carved from the cursed wood of 
a wizard’s coﬃn, he only comes to life when someone 
reads the mysterious phrase written on a piece of 
paper in his jacket pocket. Slappy then won’t rest until 
he has enslaved his new master, or, as in the 2015 
ﬁlm, tries to set free all of the monsters contained in 
the books of the series. 
Recipes on pages 83, 96, 117, 177.
Also called “Samhain,” this pagan festival is celebrated 
on October 31, the eve of All Saints’ Day. For 
sorcerers it is the equivalent of New Year’s Day for 
humans, albeit with magical powers. Very popular 
in the magical community, Halloween is an occasion 
for gatherings, bonﬁres, and feasts, where there is 
singing and dancing until morning, sometimes in 
the company of a few spirits of the dead. This vital 
celebration within the magical community is also 
much celebrated by children, when it is an occasion to 
swap tricks for treats. 
Recipes on pages 23, 73, 133, 165.A series of novels by J. K. Rowling adapted to ﬁlm, this 
saga recounts the adventures of a young orphan boy 
who one ﬁne day discovers a world of whose existence 
he was hitherto unaware. Not only does he learn that 
he has magical powers, but also that he is the Chosen 
One awaited by an entire wizarding community to 
defeat the most powerful dark wizard of all time, 
and murderer of his parents, Lord Voldemort. At 
Hogwarts, he learns magic and forms a tight bond 
with his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger 
and they become an inseparable trio, whether joking 
with the impressive but kindly headmaster Albus 
Dumbledore, or having to attending the potion class 
of the somber Professor Snape. 
Recipes on pages 75, 76, 115, 121, 155, 157.
10THE LEGEND OF ZELDA THE LION KING
THE LORD 
OF THE RINGS MAGICA DE SPELLLink is the hero of The Legend of Zelda  video game series. 
A native of Hyrule and recognizable by his tunic 
and green cap, he ﬁghts valiantly against the forces 
of evil to come to the aid of Princess Zelda and save 
the kingdom of Hyrule. Even though his sword and 
shield are always by his side, he is perfectly adept with 
a sometimes surprising set of weapons (boomerang, 
ocarina . . .). He draws his powers from the Triforce, 
the relic concentrating the power of the gods, of which 
he holds the Courage segment. 
Recipe on page 159.Raﬁki is the great shaman of the Pride Lands. The 
old mandrill—wise, experienced, and sometimes 
eccentric —advises the animals and the King, guiding 
them to consider the right questions, both for 
themselves and for the welfare of all the animals of the 
Pride Lands. This animated ﬁlm, inspired by Osamu 
Tezuka’s manga comic Kimba the White Lion  and William 
Shakespeare’s classic play Hamlet , takes us deep into the 
heart of the power struggles, rituals, and superstitions 
of the savanna. 
Recipe on page 63.
In the universe created by J. R. R. Tolkien, Gandalf, 
an immensely knowledgable wizard, friend of the 
hobbits, and leader of the Fellowship of the Ring, is 
the formidable adversary of Sauron and Saruman. 
The latter is a white wizard who was sent to Middle-
earth to ﬁght against Sauron before his ambition 
led him to succumb to the mirages of the master of 
Mordor. Radagast the Brown is a wizard living on the 
edge of Mirkwood. While he supports the ﬁght against 
Sauron, he prefers the company of animals and plants 
to men. Beorn meanwhile is able to take the form of 
a giant black bear. He lives between Mirkwood and 
the Misty Mountains, which he protects from goblins 
and orcs. The Ents for their part are the powerful and 
ancient guardians of the trees of Middle-earth. 
Recipes on pages 27, 29, 31, 123, 151, 152, 153.The relentless Magica De Spell is a duck-witch and 
sworn enemy of Uncle Scrooge. Originally from the 
slopes of Vesuvius, where her lair is located, she is 
relentless in her attempts to make herself rich by every 
magical and alchemical means at her disposition, 
including black magic. Her dream is to steal Scrooge’s 
Number One Dime—the ﬁrst dime earned by the 
richest duck in the world!—so she can melt it into an 
amulet that would bring her a fortune greater than 
the famous Balthazar. And nothing will stop her from 
reaching this goal! Not even a trip back through time. 
Recipes on pages 51, 129.
11A MIDSUMMER 
NIGHT’S DREAMNANNY 
MCPHEE
Puck is a mischievous and rebellious elf, a favorite 
of Oberon, the King of the Fairies. Able to take on 
the appearance of creatures that can be terrifying or 
amusing, cunning or friendly, he likes to have fun 
playing tricks and leading travelers astray in the night.
Titania is the Queen of the Fairies, elves, and goblins. 
In William Shakespeare’s A Midsummer Night’s Dream , she 
is the wife of Oberon. Having provoked Oberon’s 
jealousy and anger, he orders Puck to cast a spell on 
the Queen, which will make her fall in love with the 
ﬁrst creature she sees, even if it is a donkey. 
Recipe on page 140.Mr. Brown’s seven children, who recently lost their 
mother, have made frightening their nannies their 
specialty. But the Nanny McPhee of the ﬁlm, Nurse 
Matilda in the novels by Christianna Brand, is no 
ordinary nanny: dressed in black, with a warty face, a 
crooked nose, and always carrying her cane, everything 
about her is like a witch, including her powers. Of 
course, the children try to resist her, but when they 
are muted when they want to speak and compelled 
to be polite, it soon becomes more fun to do what 
she says. Especially because Nanny McPhee, beneath 
her stern exterior, turns out to be a very valuable ally 
when a strange woman sets her sights on marrying  
Mr. Brown. 
Recipes on pages 41, 109.MARY 
POPPINS MELUSINE
With her parrot umbrella, prim hat bearing ﬂowers 
and cherries, carpetbag, and excellent letters of 
reference, Mary Poppins seems the most respectable 
of nannies. From the moment she arrives at the Banks’ 
family home at 17 Cherry Tree Lane, however, her 
methods seem rather unconventional. The children’s 
room tidies itself up while Mary whistles like a robin. 
When she takes the children to the park, she leads them 
inside chalk pictures drawn by her friend Bert, where 
they spend a day having adventures in a magical world. 
A visit to an old uncle ends in laughter while taking 
tea on the ceiling and an innocent stroll becomes a 
wild jig across the rooftops of London. This novel by 
P. L. Travers was made into a ﬁlm in 1964.
Recipes on pages 39, 111, 112, 160.Melusine is a legendary witch who comes in many 
diﬀerent guises. She can be found in diﬀerent regions 
of France, where she often takes on the appearance of a 
woman, but she can also transform herself at will into 
a snake or bird. You can ﬁnd her on some nights busy 
building cities and houses by the light of the moon. 
They say that, struck by a curse, she was condemned to 
hide from her husband one day a week, when she took 
the form of a snake below the waist. You can also ﬁnd 
Melusine inside the squares of a comic strip, where 
she is a young red-haired witch who divides her time 
between a Transylvanian castle, where she works as an 
au pair, and a witches school, where she is a diligent 
student, aware of her special gifts. 
Recipe on page 130.
12THE SNOW QUEENSNOW WHITE 
AND THE SEVEN DWARFS
There are several versions of Hans Christian 
Andersen’s fairy tale. One of them features two 
sisters, one of whom can command ice and cold. In 
the traditional version, the Snow Queen is riding her 
sleigh and kidnaps Kai, a young boy, to take him back 
to her ice palace. There, she freezes his heart to make 
him lose all memory of his family and his friend Gerda 
so that he will stay with her forever. Gerda, who has 
gone looking for Kai, narrowly escapes a witch and 
ﬁnds him imprisoned in the palace. Taking advantage 
of the Queen’s absence, Gerda enters the castle and 
frees her friend by melting the ice that has frozen his 
heart and mind. 
Recipe on page 53.Obsessed by her beauty and terribly jealous of Snow 
White, the Wicked Queen decides to get rid of her by 
having her killed by a huntsman. Snow White ﬁnds 
refuge in the forest, prompting the Queen to change 
strategy. Helped by her magic mirror, the Wicked 
Queen transforms herself into an ugly old woman, 
ﬁnds Snow White, and oﬀers her a poisoned apple. 
This fairy tale, collected by the Brothers Grimm and 
published for the ﬁrst time in 1812, is said to have 
been inspired by a German myth. 
Recipes on pages 107, 164.SLEEPING BEAUTY THE SMURFS
Oﬀended at not having been invited to the baptism of 
the daughter of King Stefan, Maleﬁcent (also known 
as the wicked fairy godmother in the version of the 
story by Charles Perrault) condemns Princess Aurora 
to prick her ﬁnger on the spindle of a spinning wheel 
on her sixteenth birthday, and thus sink into an eternal 
sleep which can only be broken by true love’s kiss.
Surrounding the castle with impenetrable brambles, 
she jealously guards the princess, not hesitating to 
take the form of a dragon if necessary to ﬁght those 
who want to steal Aurora away. 
Recipe on page 163.With his cat Azrael always by his side, Gargamel hunts 
down Smurfs because they are the essential ingredient 
for making the Philosopher’s Stone. If only he could 
catch them! This however is not going to happen any 
time soon, because no one can ﬁnd Smurf village 
unless they are guided there by one of its inhabitants. 
Papa Smurf is distinguished by his cap, red pants, and 
venerable white beard, along with his ability to speak 
the language of humans. The energetic leader of the 
small blue gnomes is 542 years old, giving him the 
necessary wisdom and experience to avoid the traps 
set for them by the scheming Gargamel in the forty-
odd volumes of this Belgian comic created by the 
cartoonist Peyo.
Recipes on pages 84, 167.
13THE WITCHES THE WIZARD OF OZ ULYSSES 31 WILLOW
According to Roald Dahl’s novel The Witches , they 
live among us as quite ordinary women, far from 
the popular image we have of them. But if you pay 
attention, the gloves they always wear, their lack of 
toes, and their bald heads hidden under wigs should 
tip you oﬀ. They lurk everywhere, especially in 
England, and desperately seek to eliminate children, 
by all possible means. Led by the Grand High Witch, 
they gather together in a large hotel, where they try to 
pass unnoticed. But a young boy sees right through 
them and inﬁltrates their Meeting. 
Recipe on page 45.Dorothy is torn from her home by a violent tornado 
that rages over Kansas. With her little dog Toto, she 
arrives in the Land of Oz, where she is told that only 
the great Wizard living in the Emerald City can get her 
back home. Along the way, Dorothy meets a scarecrow 
who would like to be smart, a lion who seeks courage, 
and a tin woodman who longs for a heart. Together 
they head to the Emerald City, but the road turns out 
to be strewn with dangers orchestrated by the wicked 
witches of Oz. The 1900 novel by L. Frank Baum was 
released as a ﬁlm in 1939, starring Judy Garland, and 
won the Academy Award that year for best song, “Over 
the Rainbow.”
Recipes on pages 54, 57.In the animated television series Ulysses 31 , ﬁrst shown 
in France in 1981, which follows the broad outlines 
of Homer’s Odyssey  in a futuristic setting, Circe is 
a an enchantress who aims to gather together all of 
the knowledge, stories, and legends that have been 
told since the origin of the worlds. She lures the 
crews of passing spaceships and charms them during 
an elaborate banquet, then hypnotizes them so they 
stay forever by her side and help her manage her 
intergalactic library.
Recipe on page 135.Willow Ufgood, the hero of the ﬁlm Willow , directed in 
1988 by Ron Howard, is a Nelwyn (little person) living 
modestly with his family on a small farm, cherishing 
the hope of one day becoming a great sorcerer. One 
morning his children ﬁnd a human baby on the 
riverbank. The village council assigns him the task of 
taking the little girl to a crossroads and entrusting her 
to the ﬁrst Daikini (human) he meets. This is how 
Willow makes the acquaintance of Madmartigan, a 
disreputable mercenary but excellent warrior. Saving 
the sorceress Fin Raziel along their way, who teaches 
him the art of magic, Willow and Madmartigan lead 
Elora toward her destiny: to shatter the reign of the 
tyrannical Bavmorda. 
Recipe on page 95.
14THE WORLD OF NARNIAWORLD 
OF WARCRAFT
According to C. S. Lewis, the author of this novel saga, 
it was quite by chance that Digory and his friend Polly 
created Narnia, by playing with magic rings. Jadis, the 
White Witch, is a terrifying sorceress, half-giant, half-
djinn. Awakened by Digory, she arrives in Narnia 
shortly afterward, where she reigns for a hundred 
years, ensuring that it is “always winter and never 
Christmas.” Fought against by Peter, Susan, Edmund, 
and Lucy Pevensie, she is defeated by Aslan at the 
Battle of Beruna. It is her sister who sends Eustace 
and his companions to the Harfang Giants for their 
Autumn Feast. During their exploration of the Lone 
Islands, the crew of the Dawn Treader  face many magical 
phenomena, including the cave that turns those who 
fall asleep in it into a dragon and Duﬄepud Island. 
Recipes on pages 25, 26, 77, 78, 81, 143, 169, 171.Once upon a time there was a video game set in 
Azeroth, a fantasy world populated by many mythical 
races. Each of them is in search of quests and instances 
to successfully complete for the power, glory, and 
many treasures promised to the victors. To defeat 
your enemies, everything is a matter of choice: join 
the Alliance or the Horde? Become a renowned 
warrior or a dreaded shaman? What skills do you need 
to develop to become essential in a guild? Each player 
has to confront these questions every day before 
forging the right alliances and engaging in brutal, 
epic, and legendary battles. 
Recipe on page 48.
15MAGICAL FOOD
FOR 
EVERYDAYchapter i
16Souk Cigars • Spinach phyllo ﬁngers
Brochettes of Finely Chopped Enemy • Falafel skewers
Morsels from the Cave of Wonders • Carrot squares with spices
Pumpkin Soup • Pumpkin soup with nutmeg
 
Cair Paravel Eggs • Bacon and egg toast
Ramandu’s Island Salad • Whiting ceviche with coconut milk
 
Souﬄé Omelet Saruman • Souﬄé omelet
Radagast’s Salad • Watercress and mushroom salad
Beorn’s Goat Cheese Toast • Goat cheese toast with honey and herbs
Kebab of 3,000 Years Ago • Meat-ﬁlled pita pockets
Cucumber Sandwiches • Cucumber and mint sandwiches
Babylonian Pottage • Chicken and red lentil soup
Sardine Sandwiches • Cocktail sandwiches with homemade sardine pâté
Peelings Soup • Soup made from heirloom vegetable peelings
Magical Gratin • Macaroni and cheese
Witches’ Soup • Zucchini soup with tapioca
Red Dragon Inn Fiery Broth • Spicy coconut milk soup
Nagrand Tempura • Japanese shrimp and vegetable fritters
Pasta from the Lair of Magica De Spell • Spaghetti with fresh mussels
Chicken with Cherries from the Cold Lands • Braised chicken with cherries
Scarecrow Bread • Corn bread
Dorothy’s Toast • Spice bread toast with goat cheese and apricot
The Ancient One’s Tibetan Momo • Asian beef dumplings19
20
21
23
25
26
27
29
31
33
34
36
39
41
42
45
47
48
51
53
54
57
58Welcome, noble stranger, your presence honors one of the most esteemed souks in Arabia! 
Inhale these incomparable incenses and perfumes, marvel at the ﬁ  ne quality of these fabrics! 
What was that? You seek something even more precious? Some sort of remarkable lamp? I 
recognized you, O Great Wizard!  Let me ﬁ  nd it for you! I insist ! And while you wait, sit and 
enjoy the best cigars of the souk, the pride of our lands!
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  • 35 mins
 Rinse the spinach thoroughly to rid it of any dust from the souk (remove the 
larger stems if necessary), then simmer for 20 minutes in salted water. Using 
a slotted spoon take it out and drop it straight into a large bowl of iced water — 
that will wake it up!
 Drain and chop the spinach, crumble in the cheese, and mix. Above all, 
Noble Friend, do not forget to season with salt and pepper.
 Next, brush a sheet of phyllo dough with milk using a kitchen brush (yes, a 
brush, even if the carpet insists that you use its tassels).
 The next step demands the dexterity of 40 thieves: place a spoonful of 
mixture 3/4 inch from the bottom of the sheet of phyllo, leaving the necessary 
space on each side. Fold the pastry over the ﬁ  lling, brush with milk, then fold 
the sides inward: Ta-da! You have a rectangle!
 Preheat the oven to 400°F. Roll the ﬁ  lled part toward the top, remembering 
to brush the pastry with milk with each turn. Finish all the cigars. What was 
that? Distracted by the marvels of the souk, you forgot to preheat the oven? Is 
that a formal wish? It is? In that case, consider it done: here, before you, O my 
Master, is a perfectly prepared oven. All you have to do now is slide the cigars, 
brushed with olive oil and sprinkled with delicious sesame seeds, into the oven 
and wait for about 35 minutes. Be patient, your cigars will be golden and crisp! 
Enjoy them with yogurt enhanced with a squeeze of lemon juice. Good, no?ingredients  
• makes about 20 cigars
2 1/4 lb spinach, fresh if possible 
3 1/2 oz sheep’s milk cheese (such as 
feta)
Salt and pepper
10 sheets phyllo dough
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) milk
1 small cup olive oil
1 3/4 oz sesame seeds 
1 small tub plain yogurt 
1 squeeze lemon juice MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
aladdin
SOUK CIGARS
19“When, like me, you are a powerful wizard with designs upon the Sultan’s throne, you have 
to be able to command respect. I’ll tell you a secret: ever since my faithful servant spread the 
rumor that this recipe is made from the ﬂesh of my enemies, they are terriﬁed whenever they 
see me. Ha! ha! ha!” –The Vizier
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 20 mins   
soaking time  • 1 night       resting time  • 30 mins
 Remember to soak your chickpeas in water. There’s nothing like a good 
night’s sleep to soften them up.
 The next day, drain the chickpeas, wrap them in a dish towel, and rub them 
vigorously to remove their skin. Crush them mercilessly, then reduce them to 
a purée.
 Finely chop the onion, crush the garlic, rinse the parsley and the cilantro 
and delicately shred them.
 Mix together the herbs, cumin, puréed enemy . . . I beg your pardon, the 
puréed chickpeas, add 3 cups water and the baking powder, and mix again to 
make sure any insubordinate ingredients know who’s in charge! Taste, season 
with salt and pepper, and leave them to rest and reﬂect for 30 minutes.
  Heat some oil in a large saucepan or deep fryer to 350°F.
 After 30 minutes, shape small balls of mixture with a spoon and cook them 
in the oil until they are golden brown. Impale them on skewers, drizzle with 
lemon juice, and enjoy with a simple seasonal salad while dreaming up your 
next Machiavellian plan.ingredients  • serves 6
1 lb 2 oz chickpeas
1 onion
2 garlic cloves
2 t ﬂat-leaf (Italian) parsley leaves 
1 t cilantro leaves
1 t cumin
1 t baking powder
Salt and pepper
Oil for deep frying 
Juice of 1 lemon
1 seasonal lettuce MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
aladdin
BROCHETTES OF FINELY 
CHOPPED ENEMY
20ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz carrots
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) milk
3 1/2 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
1 oz currants (dry)
4 cardamom pods
1 oz unsalted pistachios
1 3/4 oz butter
1 oz ﬂ  aked and toasted almondsMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
aladdin
M ORSELS FROM THE CAVE OF 
WONDERS
“Salaam, Esteemed Eﬀ  endi, who rubbed my lamp . . . allow your humble servant to introduce 
you to these sweetmeats straight from the Cave of Wonders.” —The Genie of the Lamp
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  • 50 mins
 To sample these squares, my Friend, you must wash, peel, and ﬁ  nely grate 
the carrots.
 Then, put them in a saucepan over high heat—watch your ﬁ  ngers!—and add 
the milk and enough water to cover the carrots. Next, ask the carpet to add the 
sugar and mix gently until it is dissolved (the sugar, not the carpet). Lower the 
heat and let it simmer for the time it takes to admire the sun setting over the 
desert (about 45 minutes).
 As the last rays are fading, soak the currants  in a little lukewarm water.
 Remove the cardamom seeds from their pods and grind them to a powder 
by asking an elephant to stamp on them. If you don’t have an elephant, you 
can also take two spoons and crush the seeds by pressing them against each 
other—or else use a food processor, but it is noisy and not as amusing. But, 
by my beard, I am forgetting something, the pistachios must also be roughly 
chopped! 
 When the sun has disappeared behind the dunes and the carrots have 
absorbed almost all the milk, add the drained currants , ground cardamom, 
and chopped pistachios, then add the butter in pieces and leave to cook for 5 
minutes, just enough time to grant a wish.
 Spoon mixture into a dish or tray and allow it to cool completely before 
cutting into squares. Scatter with almonds.
 Cut into squares and enjoy as you contemplate the moonlight.
21To celebrate Halloween, here is a recipe that delights sorcerers both of this world and the next, 
from that most esteemed authority on the subject of pumpkins: Cinderella’s fairy godmother.
preparation time  • 30 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Fetch your best pumpkin from the bottom of the garden (not the biggest 
one, you might need that for a coach), brush oﬀ   the lizard, ﬁ  nd your wand (up 
your sleeve, perhaps?), take a deep breath, smile, and cut the pumpkin into 
large pieces, carefully. Remove the seeds.
 If cooking in a cauldron: don your protective gloves and carefully remove 
the peel of the pumpkin. Place the pieces in your pot, cover with water and a 
shower of sparkles, crumble in the bouillon cube, and cook for 45 minutes.
 If you are using a steamer: crumble the bouillon cube into a bowl of water 
to add to the pumpkin later. Place the pumpkin pieces in the steam basket 
without removing the peel and cook for about 45 minutes, until the ﬂ  esh is as 
tender as a fairy’s smile and can be easily pierced with the tip of your wand. Let 
it cool for a few minutes, then remove the peel by gently pulling it oﬀ  .
 Blend the cooked pumpkin pieces in a food processor, adding a little of the 
cooking liquid until you have a smooth, ﬂ  uid soup. Taste, ask the mice and 
the lizard for their opinion, and add grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper to your 
preference  (the opinion  of the mice is decidedly too weird).
 Pour into bowls, add the crème fraîche or sour cream, and serve. Let your 
guests enjoy, but only after casting a protective spell over their clothes—it 
would be a shame to have to change and be late for the ball.ingredients  • serves 4
One 2 1/4 lb winter squash from 
the garden (red kuri, butternut, 
Hungarian blue . . .)
1 chicken bouillon cube
Freshly grated nutmeg
Salt and pepper
2 1/4 oz crème fraîche or sour creamMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
halloween
PUMPKIN SOUP
23Lucy, Edmund, Susan, and Peter, and not forgetting Caspian . . . over the centuries many 
have sat at Cair Paravel, the castle where the kings and queens of Narnia hold court. Many 
remarkable banquets have been held there, but the dish that has been most well-received is 
based on eggs. Why? Because wherever and whenever you eat it—in the middle of nowhere or 
in some very tricky situation—it will always be like being at home.
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 10 mins
 When the sun rises over the land of Aslan, cut half a baguette into 4 pieces, 
2 inches long, and pull out some of the crumb to make a nest; set aside.
 Sauté  the bacon for a few minutes in a nonstick frying pan until golden 
brown, drain oﬀ   the excess fat, and set aside.
 Pour the oil into the frying pan. When it is hot, place the bread nests in the 
pan, hole-side up.
 Break the eggs carefully. Gently slide each egg into a hole, lightly pressing 
the baguette so the egg white doesn’t run underneath the bread. Season with 
pepper.
 Cook for 2 minutes, then turn the nest over with a spatula and cook for 
another 2 minutes .
 When the bread is as golden as the coat of the Great Lion, place it on a plate 
and scatter over the bacon pieces.ingredients  • serves 4
1 ⁄2 baguette
3 1/2 oz thick-cut bacon, cut into 
lardons
Sunﬂ  ower oil
4 eggs
PepperMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the world of narnia
CAIR PARAVEL EGGS
25When the crew of the  Dawn Treader arrives on Ramandu’s Island, a strange scene greets 
them: three Narnian lords, heads on their plates, sleeping an enchanted sleep in the middle 
of a vast banquet. Every evening, great, elegant birds, white as snow, replace the dishes, to 
the great amazement of Caspian and his friends. Fortunately, Ramandu and his daughter 
Evening Star explain the reasons for this spell. The huge feast, prepared at the behest of Aslan, 
honors the warm and pleasant island that marks the beginning of the World’s End, so it is 
natural that the dishes give pride of place to seafood and the foods of the tropics.
preparation time  • 15 mins       marinating time  • 5 hrs   
disgorging time  • 15 mins  
 Place the lemons on the banqueting table and , pressing down on them ﬁrmly 
beneath the palm of your hand, roll each lemon back and forth a few times. 
Then cut them in half over a bowl and squeeze them to extract all their juice.
 Rinse the ﬁsh, check that there are no bones left. Using the broad Stone 
Knife lying on the table, cut the ﬁsh into pieces. Place the pieces in a dish, 
cover with lemon juice, cover the dish with plastic wrap, and marinate in the 
refrigerator for 5 hours.
 When the Evening Star fades, drain the ﬁsh.
 Peel the cucumber and cut it into cubes. Dust the cubes lightly with salt 
before placing them in a strainer to disgorge for 15 minutes. Peel the shallot 
and carrots, then thinly slice the shallot and cut the carrots into sticks. Rinse 
the tomatoes and chives. Dice the tomatoes and chop the chives.
 Gently combine the pieces of ﬁsh, cucumber, shallot, carrots, and tomatoes 
in a mixing bowl. Pour the coconut milk over top, stir again, and sprinkle with 
chopped chives. Serve immediately .ingredients  • serves 4
5 lemons
1 lb 2 oz whiting ﬁllets (bream or 
cod)
1 ⁄2 cucumber
Salt
1 shallot
2 carrots
2 tomatoes
1 bunch chives
3 1/2 oz coconut milkMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the world of narnia
RAMANDU’S ISLAND SALAD
26Saruman is a wizard with great power, much of which lies in his mesmerizing voice that 
enchants many a creature. His ambition led him to succumb to the mirages of Sauron. After 
the fall of Isengard, Merry and Pippin regain their composure thanks to this omelet made 
from ingredients they found in the guard room of the White Tower.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 6 to 8 mins
 Brea k your eggs over a bowl, separating the yolks from the whites.
 Start a tornado in a bowl (or use a mixer) and beat the whites until ﬁrm  
peaks form.
 Pour the cream into a bowl that has been chilled in the freezer, unleash the 
winds of Caradhras, and beat the cream until it thickens.
 In another bowl, break up the yolks with a whisk, add the whipped cream, 
then the beaten egg whites, and season with salt and pepper.
 Heat the butter in a frying pan as hot as a palantír, pour in the mixture, and 
cook for 3 to 4 minutes until the omelet is set.
 Fold the edges toward the center and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. Serve 
immediately.ingredients  • serves 4
8 eggs
4 1/2 oz pouring cream
Salt and pepper
1/2 oz butterMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the lord of the rings
SOUFFLÉ OMELET SARUMAN
27Radagast the Brown is a wizard living on the edge of Mirkwood. Also called Aiwendil meaning 
“friend to birds, ” he prefers the company of animals and plants to that of men. In the ﬁlm 
The Hobbit , it is Radagast who warns Gandalf about the return of an evil presence in the 
stronghold of Dol Guldur.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Rinse the beets and wrap them in parchment paper or a sheet of aluminum 
foil. Place them in the oven or under the ashes of a good ﬁre, and cook them 
until a knife pierces them easily (about 45 minutes).
 Rinse the watercress leaves well in the clear water of a stream, then spin them 
dry.
 Making sure that all of your mushrooms are indeed safe to eat, brush them 
and clean with a damp cloth. Slice them very thinly and fry for a few minutes 
in a frying pan over high heat until they start to brown.
 Crack the walnuts and collect the kernels.
 Make a vinaigrette by mixing together the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper.
 Peel the beets and cut them into pieces. In a large bowl, combine the pieces  
of beet, the cooled mushrooms, the watercress, and the walnuts, and add the 
dressing just before serving.ingredients  • serves 4
2 raw beets
1 bunch of watercress
9 oz mushrooms
1 handful walnuts
2 T walnut oil
1 T apple cider vinegar 
Salt and pepperMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the lord of the rings
RADAGAST’S SALAD
29In The Hobbit , when Bilbo and his companions ﬁnd refuge at Beorn’s home after ﬂeeing the 
orcs, the man-bear treats them to toast with cheese from his goats and honey from Mirkwood .
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 5 mins
 Using a very sharp blade, cut each small cheese in half lengthwise, or each  
large cheese into slices 1/2 -inch thick. 
 Season with salt and pepper, sprinkle lightly with nutmeg, and lay the pieces 
of cheese on the bread slices.
 Pick some herbs growing south of the gate. Rinse, drain, and chop them 
ﬁnely. Sprinkle the slices with fresh herbs and then drizzle with honey. 
 Place them under a broiler for about 5 minutes, until the cheese melts, the  
honey caramelizes, and the bread becomes crusty. Serve with seasonal salad.ingredients  • serves 4
4 small or 2 large goat cheese logs
Salt and pepper
1 pinch freshly grated nutmeg
4 slices bread
1 handful fresh herbs (basil, 
marjoram, thyme)
4 T honey
1 seasonal lettuce (batavia, mâche)MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the lord of the rings
BEORN’S GOAT CHEESE TOAST 
31Ah, the splendor of the walls of Ur, of Babylon the magniﬁcent. . . . Only we forget to mention 
that it was the djinn—well, mostly Bartimaeus—who built these cities that became legendary 
for their beauty. The only drawback was that he was constantly preparing this dish for Faquarl 
and Jabor, who would demand a snack each time they ﬁnished a section of wall.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 25 mins
resting time  • 45 mins
 Mix the ﬂatbread ingredients together, then knead the dough. When it is 
smooth and not sticky, let it stand for 45 minutes.
 In your incarnation as a ﬁre spirit, toast the sesame seeds with a glance 
(alternatively, toast in a frying pan over medium heat)—they should be golden but 
not too brown. In a mortar of the purest marble (or a blender), crush the seeds 
with an equal amount of oil and mash until the mixture is smooth and even.
 Finely chop the cilantro. With an elegant gesture, peel the onion and slice it 
into strips. Soften the strips in a frying pan over medium heat until translucent, 
then add the meat and cumin and cook for 5 minutes. Add the cilantro, mix, 
season, with salt and pepper, and let cool.
 Divide the dough into 6 equal pieces, and roll them out very thinly on a 
ﬂoured work surface. Lay them in a very hot frying pan and let them cook for 
5 to 7 minutes on each side: they should brown lightly and puﬀ up like an 
exasperated magician.
 Open up each ﬂatbread, ﬁll with some of the meat mixture and crumbled 
cheese, add a generous spoonful of the sesame sauce, and eat hot, admiring 
the rising waters of the River Jordan.ingredients  • serves 6
The ﬂatbreads
14 oz ﬂour + extra for work surface
1 t baking powder
1 t superﬁne sugar
1 t salt
1 1/2 oz butter, melted
8 ﬂ oz (1 cup) milk
The ﬁlling
Sesame seeds
Olive oil
1 handful cilantro leaves
1 onion
9 oz leftover meat
1 t cumin
Salt and pepper
3 1/2 oz sheep’s milk cheese, 
crumbledMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the bartimaeus trilogy
KEBAB OF 3,000 YEARS AGO
33As the youngest Minister for Information of all time, Nathaniel—who elects to become 
John Mandrake—is a regular guest at government receptions. Which is just as well, because 
otherwise how would he prevent an ambitious, powerful, and really very cunning wizard, 
accompanied by a legion of djinn, from taking advantage of a cocktail party to try to seize 
power? That said, even at the highest level s, and right in the middle of a battle where golem s 
mingle with magical spells and amulets, the cream of British magicians cannot pass up these 
famous cucumber sandwiches.
preparation time  • 20 mins   
 Peel the cucumber and slice it as thinly as possible ; ideally you will have 
conjured up a djinni with a mandoline  or razor-sharp claws. Salt the cucumber 
slices, place them in a strainer in the sink , and let them drain for 15 minutes, 
the time it takes to discipline the unruly djinni who is making rude remarks 
about the addiction of British magicians to cucumber sandwiches.
 Find your place again in your recipe and blot the cucumber slices with paper 
towels.
 Toast the slices of bread, then spread them with butter. Arrange the cucumber 
slices in an attractive pattern on a slice of whole  wheat bread, disregarding 
the disparaging comments of the djinni who says this is pointless because the 
cucumber will be on the inside of the sandwich. Ignore him, he does not know 
what he is talking about. If he insists, threaten to enclose him in a bottle for 
the rest of his summoning —that’ll teach him.
 Sprinkle the rounds of cucumber with ﬁ  nely chopped mint, cover with a 
slice of white bread, and press down lightly. Do the same with the other slices 
of bread. Cut the sandwich into quarters on the diagonal and enjoy while 
keeping an eye on the megalomaniac wizard who would like to destroy your 
career.ingredients  • makes 8 
sandwiches or 32 mini-sandwiches
1 cucumber
8 slices whole wheat sandwich bread
8 slices white sandwich bread
3 1/2 oz unsalted butter
2 t freshly chopped mint
Salt and pepper MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the bartimaeus trilogy
CUCUMBER SANDWICHES
34When the divine Queen of Sheba asks the djinni Bartimaeus to take her magician Asmira 
across the vast desert to spy on the great King Solomon—hallowed be his slippers—she doesn’t 
think about how her companion will eat. It is always the same with the great and the good, they 
don’t think about logistics and detail! And who saves the day by cooking up a good restoring 
and comforting soup? Bartimaeus!
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins   
 Make the most of the scorching midday sun to toast your lentils in a pan  
over medium heat. A few minutes is enough; you don’t want to burn them.
 Rinse the pieces of chicken by summoning up a spurt of water. While you’re 
at it, rinse the cilantro and the watercress or arugula as well. Peel the onions 
(and if you start to cry and blow your nose on the ﬂ  ying carpet, do it discreetly, 
wizards are rather sensitive about this, I don’t know why) and cut each of them 
into four. Wash and cut the leeks.
 Place  a large pot on high heat and add the toasted lentils, pieces of chicken, 
cilantro, watercress or arugula, onion, leek, crushed garlic, and cumin. Add 
the milk and enough water to cover the mixture . When bubbles appear, reduce 
the heat and simmer for 45 minutes until the chicken meat comes away from 
the bone.
 Enjoy hot.
If you can cook this soup on a ﬂ  ying carpet while avoiding marauding desert bandits, there is 
no reason why it shouldn’t work! Okay, maybe there is.  Because you aren’t an amazing djinni 
able to view seven planes!ingredients  • serves 6
• for 6 Babylonian djinn
Several pieces of poultry 
1 handful beggarweed 
2 Samidu 
1 Sahumu
1 Suhutinuu 
1 handful Sahlu or Engengeru 
Kisiburu leaves 
1 nib Kamu 
1 jug of Kisimmu 
• for 6 modern djinn
1 handful red lentils
6 chicken pieces on the bone (thighs, 
wings . . .)
1 bunch cilantro 
1 handful watercress or arugula 
2 onions
1 leek
1 garlic clove
1 t cumin
2 pt (4 cups) milkMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the bartimaeus trilogy
BABYLONIAN POTTAGE
36When he can’t stop laughing, Mary Poppins’ Uncle Albert ﬂ  oats up to the ceiling, where he 
rolls about in ﬁ  ts of giggles! Although this behavior is somewhat inappropriate —how are you 
supposed  to drink your tea without spilling it when you’re bobbing around high above the 
ﬂ  oor?— these sandwiches are perfect for teatime with a bird’s-eye view!
preparation time  • 5 mins 
Note: Do your best to keep your composure so you don’t ﬂ  oat away before ﬁ  nishing the sandwiches. 
 Drain the sardines, cut them in half lengthwise  and remove the backbone. 
Mash them in a bowl with the butter and lime juice, and season with salt and 
pepper.
 Rinse the cherry tomatoes, cut them in half, and let them drain for a few 
moments. Don’t make any jokes or tell any funny stories or hilarious anecdotes; 
keep a straight face . . . or you will take oﬀ   and not come back down!
 Spread half of the bread slices with the ﬁ  shy mixture, place a tomato half in 
the center of each, and top with the second slice of bread.
 Tssttssstss, I hear you tittering. . . . Come on, be serious just a little 
longer! Ignore Uncle Albert, who is bouncing oﬀ   the walls in time with his 
uncontrollable laughter, and cut the sandwiches using the cookie cutter of 
your choice (star, umbrella, parrot). Now that you’ve reached this point you’re 
nearly there, take a deep breath, arrange the remaining tomato halves on top  
. . . and now you can at last let out all the laughter. Enjoy on the ceiling!ingredients  • serves 4
9 oz canned sardines in water
1 oz unsalted butter 
Juice of 1 lime
Salt and pepper
8 cherry tomatoes
8 slices white sandwich bread MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
mary poppins
SARDINE SANDWICHES
39One ﬁ  ne morning, when Cedric Brown’s seven children were pretending to be sick and refusing 
to get up, Nanny McPhee glued them to their beds for the whole day. Later, as the sun was 
setting, she served them this soup. It may be made from humble vegetable peelings but to the 
hungry children it was the best dish they had ever tasted.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins 
 Rinse the peelings and sort them, discarding any that are bruised or moldy. 
Set aside a few for garnish. Wash the herbs as well.
 Place the peelings in a large pot, crumble in the bouillon cube, add the 
herbs, season with salt and pepper, and cover with fresh water.
 Bring to a boil. When the ﬁ  rst bubble bursts, lower the heat and simmer 
for 45 minutes. Use this time to check that the supposedly sick children are 
actually lying in their beds rather than using them as trampolines.
 Heat a saucepan of water, cook the noodles according to the time indicated 
on the packet, drain, and set aside.
 Preheat the oven to 4 50°F.
 Spread the reserved peelings on a baking sheet and bake for 5 to 10 minutes , 
depending on their thickness, until they are nice and crispy.
 Strain the broth and serve it very hot with the noodles and crisped peelings , 
after having lifted the spell gluing the children to their beds, of course!ingredients  • serves 6
2 lb 4 oz vegetable trimmings, as 
diverse as they are varied (potatoes, 
carrots, parsnips, radish tops, 
beets . . .)
1 small handful fresh herbs (thyme, 
bay leaf, rosemary)
1 chicken bouillon cube
Salt and pepper
1 packet (9 oz) noodlesMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
nanny mcphee
PEELINGS SOUP
41We modern-day witches and wizards lead a hectic life, especially when we live with humans 
who are unaware of our existence. That’s why sometimes we need to take it easy—or wave our 
wands—and, like Samantha, Darrin, and Tabitha, enjoy a good, satisfying meal at home as 
a family. In such cases, you simply can’t beat macaroni and cheese.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 30 mins   
Oh Daughters of Selene and Residents of Limbo, hear me! 
May the oven reach 350°F,
May the onion be peeled without tears and ﬁ  nely chopped, 
May the tomatoes be washed and cut into pieces,
May the beef be sautéed for 10 minutes on high heat,
May the macaroni be cooked in ﬁ  ve times their volume of boiling water, 
then drained,
May the meat and tomatoes, onions and pasta, and salt and pepper be 
mixed together in a large dish,
May the butter and two-thirds of the cheese be added before all is again mixed, 
May the mixture be divided into as many ramekins as guests, 
May the remaining cheese cover all,
And may the ramekins rest in the embers of the oven for 20 minutes! 
Oh Residents of Limbo! Oh Daughters of Selene!
May nobody disturb us in this moment,
May this moment be sacred and may we share it in peace!ingredients  • serves 6
1 onion 
2 1/4 lb tomatoes 
1 lb 2 oz ground beef
1 packet (1 lb 2 oz) macaroni
Salt and pepper
9 oz grated Cheddar cheese (try it
as well with Parmesan, Mimolette, 
or Gruyère)
1 3/4 oz butterMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
bewitched
M AGICAL GRATIN
42Although simple to make, this appetizer is a favorite of all the witches, including the Grand 
High Witch, when they get together for their great Annual Meeting. . . . Unless, of course, 
they ﬁ  rst swallow the Delayed Action Formula 86 and ﬁ  nd themselves turning into mice. But 
you don’t need to wait for an Annual Meeting, you can try this recipe yourself at home.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 1 hr 10 mins
 Bring the tomato juice to a boil and cook the tapioca in it verrry gently for 
tventy minutes.
 Rrrinse and peel the potatoes, and cut them into verrry large pieces.
 Rrrepeat  with the zucchini.
 Place  the pieces of potato in a larrrge saucepan of boiling vater. Let them 
cook for 30 minutes, after vich you add the zucchini and simmerrr for another 
tventy minutes.
 Now drain the tapioca pearrrls (keep the tomato juice to use in another 
potion).
 Rrremove the saucepan from the heat and blend, grrrind, crrrush, and 
pulverrrize yourrr soup in a powerrrful food processorrr until it is completely 
combined.
 Taste, add salt and pepperrr, then add the verrry rrred tapioca to your verrry 
grrreen soup and eat verrry hot.ingredients  • serves 4
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) tomato juice
2 1/4 oz tapioca pearls
4 potatoes
2 1/4 lb zucchini
Salt and pepperMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the witches
W ITCHES’ SOUP
45The Red Dragon Inn is near the coast, whose high cliﬀ  s are home to a vast colony of dragons. 
All the paladins, rogues, mages, and druids who have tried it are of the same mind: it is 
best to think twice before picking a quarrel with a dragon in its lair. A look of sympathy 
passes between them, when one relates how things got a little too close for comfort. That’s why 
the inn’s jolly cook has created this recipe that is both sweet and ﬁ  ery. Everyone agrees that 
in addition to being delicious and comforting, his soup is also ideal for exploring forgotten 
underground passages or facing a night full of darkness and terror.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Peel the onion, garlic, celery, and ginger. Cut them into large pieces and put 
them in a saucepan, to which you will add the coconut milk, chicken broth, 
tomato paste, curry powder, and cornichons.
 Mix together well and bring to a boil. Simmer and reduce for about 45 
minutes. Taste and season.
 Strain the soup through a strainer, then through a cloth to obtain a very clear 
broth. Taste, adjust the seasoning if necessary, and add Tabasco sauce to taste.
 Serve steaming hot.ingredients  • serves 4
1 onion
3 garlic cloves
2 celery stalks
1/2 oz fresh ginger root
1 3/4 oz coconut milk
2 pt (4 cups) chicken broth
1 small tin tomato paste
1 T curry powder
4 cornichons (baby pickled 
cucumbers)
Salt and pepper
Tabasco sauce, to tasteMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
dungeons & dragons
RED DRAGON INN FIERY BROTH
47Climb on the back of  your griﬃ   n or wolf and set out for Nagrand! An Outland zone located on 
what was once Draenor, Nagrand is the most beautiful landscape in World of Warcraft . 
Fertile soil, verdant hills coupled with waterfalls cascading between rocky peaks. . . . If you 
can evade the many clans and wild beasts, there’s nothing to stop you from taking a break 
there and enjoying the famous Nagrand tempura to restore your vitality and mana !
preparation time  • 45 mins       cooking time  • 5 mins
 Whisk the egg and iced water together in the skull of an orc, or a bowl. Add 
the ﬂ  our little by little, the paprika and salt, and then the ice cube .
 Peel the shrimp.
 Peel the vegetables. Slice the carrots and zucchini very thinly; separate the 
broccoli ﬂ  orets.
 Heat some salted water until boiling in a cauldron. Throw in your vegetables, 
and leave them for 1 minute, or the time it takes to recite a spell and provoke 
the wrath of Archimonde. Drain and dry well with paper towels.
 Heat some oil in a large saucepan or deep fryer to 350°F.
 Spellbind the shrimp and vegetables by dipping them in the batter, then fry 
them in the oil for 1 minute. Remove them from the oil and place on paper 
towels or the dried skin of a cloven-footed creature , if you have some on hand, 
then season with salt.
 Vigorously whisk the apricot jam and olive oil together in a bowl and add the
Espelette pepper. Serve the tempura straight away with the sauce on the side.ingredients  • serves 4
The batter
1 egg
5 ﬂ   oz (2/3 cup) iced water 
3 1/2 oz ﬂ  our
1 t paprika
Salt
1 ice cube
Oil for deep frying
The main foods
8 large shrimp
2 carrots
1 zucchini
7 oz broccoli
The sauce
1 T apricot jam
3½ ﬂ   oz olive oil
2 pinches Espelette pepper (mild chili 
powder)MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
world of warcraft
NAGRAND TEMPURA
48When she is not busy trying to steal Scrooge’s lucky dime, Magica lives on the slopes of 
Vesuvius. Here is a typical recipe from her lair, providing the energy she needs to work out her 
dark schemes.
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins 
 Clean the mussels: remove any with broken or open shells, then scrape the  
rest to remove any threads and traces of shell.
 Wash the mussels in a large quantity of water to rid them of sand. Finally, 
plunge them into a basin of cold water and ruthlessly eliminate any that ﬂ  oat.
 Cook the spaghetti in a large cauldron of boiling salted water  according to 
box or package directions, drain, and rinse so it doesn’t stick together. Set 
aside.
 Heat some olive oil in a second cauldron over low heat.
 Peel the garlic, cut it into pieces, and throw them into the cauldron with the 
mussels, 1/2 cup water, and the ﬁ  sh bouillon cube. Bring to a simmer for ﬁ  ve 
minutes.
 Ruthlessly eliminate any mussels that aren’t open. Strain and reserve the 
juices and remove the mussels from their shells.
 Rinse the tomatoes and dice them ﬁ  nely.
 Return the cooking juices to the cauldron, add the tomatoes, mussels, and 
spaghetti, season with salt and pepper, and heat through for 2 minutes before 
serving steaming hot sprinkled with the freshly chopped parsley.ingredients  • serves 4
2 lb 4 oz mussels
1 packet (1 lb 2 oz) spaghetti
Olive oil
2 garlic cloves
1/2 ﬁ  sh bouillon cube
9 oz ripe tomatoes, ready to use
Salt and pepper
1 T chopped fresh parsleyMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
magica de spell
PASTA FROM THE LAIR 
OF MAGICA DE SPELL
51In Hans Christian Andersen’s fairy tale, when Gerda goes in search of Kai, who has been 
kidnapped by the Snow Queen, she arrives at a curious cottage. The old woman who lives 
there insists that she stay and lets her eat as many of the cherries that grow in her orchard as 
Gerda likes. There are indeed cherries in Denmark, and they are even the central feature of 
this traditional dish!
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 50 mins
 In a ﬂ  ameproof casserole dish over high heat, panfry the chicken pieces 
with half the butter until well-browned on all sides, then add the cherry juice, 
orange juice, honey, and red currant jelly. Simmer for 25 minutes, spooning 
the liquid over the chicken at regular intervals.
 Meanwhile,  wash and peel the potatoes, then steam them or boil them in 
salted boiling water for about 25 minutes, until the tip of a sharp knife easily 
pierces their hearts.
 Remove the chicken from the ﬂ  ameproof casserole dish and set it aside.
 Strain and reserve the sauce and deglaze the casserole dish with the lemon 
juice, scraping up all the browned bits from the base of the pot. Add the rest 
of the butter, the chicken, the strained sauce, and the cherries, and cook 
for another 5 minutes, just long enough to heat through.  Season with salt 
and pepper.
 Serve piping hot with the steamed potatoes.ingredients  • serves 4
4 chicken leg quarters
2 3/4 oz butter
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) cherry juice
2 T orange juice
1 T honey
2 T red currant jelly
2 1/4 lb potatoes
Juice of 1 lemon
9 oz pitted cherries
Salt and pepperMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the snow queen
CHICKEN WITH CHERRIES 
FROM THE COLD LANDS
53When you are a scarecrow who is a lot smarter than people think, it’s a good idea to make a 
mental note of all the recipes evoked by the farmer.  It can turn out to be very useful when you 
are lost and wandering in the middle of a strange world, with just a few ears of corn up your 
sleeve and a girl called Dorothy who is as hungry as she is charming.
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 35 mins   
 Preheat the oven to 400°F.
 Sift the cornmeal, cornstarch, baking powder, and salt into a large mixing 
bowl. Add the egg and the oil, and blend with the milk.
 If, along the way, you happen to have met a local with a well-stocked pantry, 
add the following ingredients: ground meat, vinegar, pepper, mustard, 
Worcestershire sauce, and pickled peppers, cut into strips. Mix until the batter 
is smooth.
 Pour into a loaf pan and bake for 35 minutes. Cool a little before serving.ingredients  • makes 1 loaf
9 oz cornmeal
9 oz cornstarch
1 t baking powder
1 pinch salt
1 egg
4 T sunﬂ  ower oil
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) milk
Optional
7 oz ground meat
4 T cider vinegar
4 T pepper
4 T mustard
4 T Worcestershire sauce
1 jar of pickled peppersMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the wizard of oz
SCARECROW BREAD
54MAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
the wizard of oz
ingredients  • 8 toasts
1 sprig rosemary 
1 log goat cheese
(Sainte-Maure style)
1 jar apricot jam
8 slices pain d’épice (French spice 
bread)DOROTHY’S TOAST
Made with Aunt Em’s jams and Uncle Henry’s goat’s milk, Dorothy’s toasts keep her and her 
dog Toto going until they meet the Tin Man, the Lion, and Scarecrow.
preparation time  • 5 mins
 Rinse the rosemary, remove the leaves from the stem , and chop ﬁ  nely.
Remove any straw from around the log of goat cheese, kindly provided by 
Uncle Henry’s goat, then cut into slices about 1/8-inch thick.
 Spread the apricot jam on the slices of pain d’épice, then lay a slice of cheese 
on top (or more depending on the size of the bread and your appetite) and 
sprinkle with rosemary leaves.
57On his journey to Tibet, where he hopes to ﬁnd a miracle cure, Steven Strange encounters the 
Ancient One, a man with unusual powers. After a diﬃcult initiation process, Strange realizes 
his past mistakes and that he now, too, has certain powers. When undergoing trials of sorcery, 
there’s nothing quite like this traditional Tibetan dish taken with your mystical master!
preparation time  • 45 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
resting time  • 20 mins
 Take your place in the kitchen of the Ancient One and ﬁnd a bowl. Pour 10 
ﬂ oz (1 1/4 cups) of water and the salt into it.
 Using your new powers (or a whisk), swirl the water and gradually mix in the 
ﬂour. Knead the dough for 5 minutes and let it rest, covered with plastic wrap, 
for 20 minutes.
 Shred the Chinese cabbage with a saber or a sharp knife. Peel and chop the 
garlic after removing the sprout from the middle. Peel and ﬁnely chop the 
shallot. Wash and chop the cilantro leaves.
 Mix the ground beef with the rest of the ﬁlling ingredients in a bowl. Season 
with salt and pepper according to your mystical tastes.
 Shape the dough into small balls.
 Roll out the dough ﬂat on a ﬂoured surface and cut out 4 circles with a 
cookie cutter. Place a little ﬁlling in the middle of each circle and fold the 
edges over to close it up. Lightly moisten the edges with your ﬁnger to make 
them easier to seal.
 Bake for 15 minutes in a steamer or in a pot on a rack that sits above the 
surface of the water. Serve immediately.ingredients  • serves 4
The pastry
1 lb 2 oz ﬂour + extra for work 
surface
1 t salt
The ﬁlling
5 1/2 oz Chinese cabbage
1 garlic clove
1 shallot
3 sprigs cilantro
14 oz ground beef
2 T soy sauce
1 T ginger
Salt and pepperMAGICAL FOOD FOR EVERYDAY
doctor strange
THE ANCIENT ONE’S TIBETAN 
MOMO
58chapter ii
FEASTS
FOR SPECIAL
DAYS
60Raﬁki’s Chips • Spiced beef jerky
Newt Scamander’s Sasquatch Bait • Stuﬀed mushroom hors d’oeuvres
Tabitha’s Lollipops • Beet pops with goat cheese
Canapés Endora • Ham and pineapple canapés
Bewitching Scepters • Tomato and mozzarella lollipops
Vice Versa Apples • Apples stuﬀed with York ham
Hippogriﬀ en Papillote • Ostrich parcels with purple potato mash
Little Steak and Kidney Pies • Meat pies
Soup with the Gaze of Lord Voldemort’s Basilisk • Watercress soup
Duﬄepud Island Croquettes • Crab cakes
Children en Croûte • Roast veal in pastry
Dawn Treader Soup • Clam and bacon chowder
Swamp Blob • Pastry cones ﬁlled with savory mousse
Molecularized Smurf Spaghetti • Chicken with blue spaghetti
Dragon Eggs • Hard-boiled eggs in potato nests
Red Dragon Inn Roast Lamb • Roast lamb with spices
Garlic Tart • Garlic, bacon, and cheese tart
Carnutes Boar • Boar ﬁllets with honey and mustard
Roast Pork with Nelwyn Vegetables • Roast pork with heirloom vegetables
Shadowy Creature • Spicy turkey tacos
Beauty’s Tartlets • Porcini tartlets
The Beast’s Chops • Lamb chops with peas63
64
65
67
69
70
73
75
76
77
78
81
83
84
87
89
91
93
95
96
99
101A traditional dish of the Pride Lands, perfect for preparing the spoils of the hunt, Raﬁ  ki, the 
monkey shaman of the Lion kings, would always be ready to try some.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 4 hrs
freezing time  • 45 mins       resting time  • 1 night
 The shaman stores the piece of wildebeest that the Great Lion has granted 
him for 45 minutes in the coldest place he can ﬁ  nd so it will be easier to carve.
 Meanwhile, he melts the fat in a pot over low heat, adds the umbrella tree 
essence, the date palm spirit, honey, and 2 tablespoons of water.
 Summoning  the spirit of the savanna, he boils everything for the time it 
takes a warthog to shake oﬀ   a hyena (about 5 minutes of human time).
 After removing the pot from the heat source, he adds the coﬀ  ee and spice 
mix, and lets cool in a cave hidden behind a waterfall.
 Now  the monkey shaman asks one of the Lords of the Plain to use its sharp 
claws to carve the meat along the grain into thin strips. He pours the sauce into 
a dish, adds the meat strips, and lets it marinate in the refrigerator overnight.
 The next day he drains the meat and threads the strips on acacia wood skewers 
(be sure to ﬁ  nd some that can withstand high heat!). The shaman places these 
on the highest oven rack, with the drip pan on the lowest. He can then prop 
the oven door slightly ajar. He dries the meat this way for at least 4 hours in an 
oven preheated at 150°F.
 Raﬁ  ki’s chips can be stored in a dry place and eaten during the dry season 
when the herds have disappeared along with the rains.ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz wildebeest meat
(or rump steak)
1 T pink ﬂ  amingo (or duck) fat
4 T umbrella tree essence (or sweet
soy sauce)
4 T date palm spirit (or wine
vinegar)
2 T honey
4 T coﬀ  ee
2 T barbecue spice mixFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the lion king
RAFIKI’S CHIPS
63FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
fantastic beasts
In the textbook on fantastic beasts that he wrote after leaving Hogwarts, Newt Scamander 
explains that the Sasquatch is a particularly shy creature, but is very fond of mushrooms—
especially the wood blewit. Place some of these mushrooms in a prominent position at the 
northwest corner of an intersection of two paths, and you will stand a much better chance of 
attracting one. And if you make this dish . . . they are bound to succumb.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 10 mins   
 Preheat the oven to 350°F. Check that all the mushrooms are safe to eat and 
trim the dirty end of the stem.
 Brush the rest of the stem and the caps using a soft brush (or an old 
toothbrush), then wipe them with a damp cloth. Separate the stems from the 
caps.
 Peel the shallot and chop it ﬁ  nely with the mushroom stems. Mix the 
chopped shallot and mushroom stems with the rillettes, taste, season with salt 
and pepper if needed, and ﬁ  ll each cap with this mixture.
 Bake in the oven for 10 minutes, ﬁ  lled -side up. Sprinkle with chopped 
parsley and serve hot.ingredients  • serves 4
8 large mushrooms
1 shallot
3 1/2 oz rillettes
Salt and pepper
1 T chopped fresh parsleyNEWT SCAMANDER’S 
SASQUATCH BAIT
64FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
bewitched
Darrin and Samantha’s daughter Tabitha loves these lollipops so much she often makes them 
levitate toward her from the kitchen, which is a problem when Mrs. Kravitz, a neighbor, is 
lurking nearby. 
preparation time  • 15 mins
 Discreetly, so as not to attract the attention of Mrs. Kravitz, who is pretending 
to trim the hedge, coarsely chop the nuts.
 Peel the beets and cut into cylinders using your special powers, a cylindrical 
cookie cutter, or a cutter for modeling dough. If you own none of these, cut a 
wide strip of stiﬀ   card, roll it into a cylinder 2 inches in diameter, and use it 
to make cylinders of beet.
 Hollow out the cylinders using a small spoon (or a melon baller) and set 
aside.
 Mash the goat cheese, chop the walnuts, and mix together. Add a little orange 
juice to loosen the mixture, and season with salt and pepper.
 Fill the beet tubes with this mixture, then cut them into slices 1/8 –1/4-inch 
thick. Insert lollipop sticks and serve before Mrs. Kravitz falls oﬀ   her ladder.ingredients  • serves 6
3 1/2 oz walnuts
3 large cooked beets
(or 4 medium-sized beets)
1 log fresh goat cheese
1 T orange juice
Salt and pepperTABITHA’S LOLLIPOPS
65Who hasn’t dreamed of a Polynesian paradise? In the 1960s, canned pineapple was the key 
ingredient to give festive dinners a little Hawaiian  ﬂavor. The Stephens family joined in the 
trend: Endora, Samantha’s mother, adored these canapés,  Uncle Arthur and Aunt Clara took 
to them in a ﬂash, and Tabitha couldn’t get enough of them. Don’t lose this recipe—it is still 
enjoyed by witches of all generations!
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 2 mins
 If your companions are exclusively witches and wizards, there’s no need to 
use your hands: twitch the tip of your nose, and voila!
 Drain the pineapple; remove the rind of the ham.
 Place  the ingredients on each slice of bread in this order: cheese, ham, and 
pineapple.
 Cut each canapé  into quarters and place them brieﬂy under the broiler, just 
until the cheese melts and the pineapple caramelizes.
 Place a maraschino cherry on top of each and serve.ingredients  • serves 6
1 can pineapple in water 
(or syrup)
3 slices smoked ham
6 slices whole wheat bread
6 thin slices emmental cheese
1 jar maraschino cherriesFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
bewitched
CANAPÉS ENDORA
67While Mandrake and other modern magicians rarely use a scepter, it is nonetheless a powerful 
magical object and, as such, highly respected within the magical  community. Make these edible 
scepters to accompany drinks at your next cocktail party for informed wizards.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 5 mins
 Rinse the tomatoes under a clear stream of water, then dry them with care 
(and a clean cloth).
 Cut the mozzarella into cubes and place in a small cauldron, gently stirring 
over low heat until the cheese is completely melted.
 Add the thyme leaves, season with pepper (don’t add salt ; the cheese is already 
salty).  Skewer a tomato on a breadstick, then dip the tomatoes in the melted 
mozzarella and lift gently.
 Wrap the stretchy cheese around the breadstick and let the scepters cool, 
placed stems-down in an (empty) glass. Serve with caution and be on your 
guard—these scepters are very powerful!ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz cherry tomatoes, diﬀerent 
colors
1 ball (4 1/2 oz) mozzarella cheese
1 T fresh thyme leaves (lemon thyme, 
if possible)
Pepper from the mill (or somewhere 
else)
1 packet thin breadsticksFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the bartimaeus trilogy
BEWITCHING SCEPTERS
69FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the bartimaeus trilogy
Never trust appearances ; the least of things can conceal a surprise or even a trap, as Bartimaeus 
knows well. These sandwiches will remind you that all may not be as it seems. That strange 
creature over there, is it human or is it actually a golem ready to do its master’s bidding? And 
that curious amulet hanging from a chain on the chest of the new Minister? And these apples, 
at ﬁ  rst glance so sweet and inoﬀ  ensive, what are they concealing?
preparation time  • 10 mins
 Peel the apples, remove the cores, and cut them into slices about 1/8-inch 
thick. Place the slices in lemon juice as you go so they don’t oxidize.
 Cut the brie into very thin slices. Remove the rind of the ham, then cut out 
circles from it using a glass as a cookie cutter.
 Drain the apples, dry them with paper towels (or a suitable spell), and cut 
out circles from them using the glass cookie cutter.
 Spread ¼ teaspoon of mustard on half of the apple circles, place a slice of 
brie and a slice of smoked ham on top, and then top with a second apple circle 
and press down gently. If you’re worried about keeping everything in place and 
don’t have a suitable spell to hand, feel free to insert toothpicks through the 
center.ingredients  
• makes about 20 sandwiches
4 Granny Smith apples
Juice of 2 lemons
9 oz Brie-type cheese
4 slices York (smoked) ham
4 T whole-grain mustardVICE VERSA APPLES
70Hippogriﬀ  s are powerful and very intelligent creatures who are half-eagle, half-horse.
Immensely proud, they cannot be enslaved and choose whether to tolerate the company of 
wizards or not. This earns them the ﬁ  erce hatred of black magicians, who have no qualms 
about turning them into a festive dish. . . . That is, if they can manage to catch them!
preparation time  • 30 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 On a very dark night, preheat the oven to 350°F, then add a little  of the  
butter to a pot and quickly sauté the pieces of hippogriﬀ   over very high heat so 
they are browned on all sides. Note: Save a little butter for step 4.
 Brush the black trumpet mushrooms to remove any traces of soil, then wipe 
with a damp cloth.
 Peel the onion without crying or whining, and cut it into strips.
 When shreds of dark mist start to wrap themselves around your feet, lay out 
several large sheets of parchment paper and arrange a few pieces of hippogriﬀ   
on each of them with some mushrooms and onions. Season with salt and 
pepper, add a knob of butter, and don’t forget the red currant jelly.
 Ignore the screams that are beginning to rise on this Samhain night, and seal 
the parcels by folding them on themselves like an accordion, so that all of the 
lovely aromas are locked in. Bake in the oven for 45 minutes.
 While the hippogriﬀ   is cooking, wash, peel , and cut up the potatoes. Cook 
for 40 minutes in a large pot of boiling water until a knife easily pierces their 
ﬂ  esh. Mash the potatoes and add the crème fraîche or sour cream .
 Serve the hippogriﬀ   with the black trumpet mushrooms, the purple mash, 
and the blood-red sauce.ingredients  • serves 4
2 3/4 oz butter
14 1/2 oz freshly executed hippogriﬀ  
(or 14 oz ostrich meat, cut in pieces)
10 1/2 oz black trumpet mushrooms
1 onion
Salt and pepper
2 1/4 oz red currant jelly
14 oz Vitelotte (purple) potatoes
3 1/2 oz crème fraîche or sour creamFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
halloween
HIPPOGRIFF EN PAPILLOTE
73Throughout all of his adventures and years at the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, 
Harry particularly relished these pies made with care by the house-elves in the Hogwarts kitchens.
preparation time  • 30 mins       cooking time  •  1 hr 45 mins
 Remove the kidney membrane with a Disrobing spell, cut the kidney into 8 
pieces, and remove any sinew and fat.
 Cut the steak into small cubes. Put the ﬂ  our in a freezer bag, add the steak 
and kidney, close the bag, and shake to coat the pieces.
 After checking that your mushrooms are safe to eat (and that none of them 
will bite back), clean and trim them, slice them thinly, and pour the lemon 
juice over them so they don’t discolor.
 Heat the oil and butter in a heavy-based cauldron or pan. Protect yourself 
from any tears with a Dry-eye spell, then peel and chop the onion. Soften it in 
the cauldron for 5 minutes on high heat. Remove the onion and place to one 
side momentarily. Add the beef and kidney to the pan and cook over high heat 
for a few minutes  until browned on all sides. Replace the onion, and add the 
Worcestershire sauce, tomato paste, beer, broth, mushrooms, thyme, and bay 
leaf. Bring to a boil then simmer for 1 hour. Remove the bay leaf.
 Preheat the oven to 350°F. Roll out the two pastries. Line 6 small pie pans 
with the shortcrust pastry to the edge, then add the ﬁ  lling. Cut out lids in the 
puﬀ   pastry, making sure they are 1/2-inch wider than the diameter of the pie 
pans.
 Make a hole in the center of the lids so that the steam can escape. Place them 
over the ﬁ  lling and seal the edges by pressing them together lightly (or casting a 
Stick-all spell). Brush with beaten egg yolk and bake in the oven for 45 minutes.ingredients  • serves 6
1 beef kidney (or diced 
or ground bee/f.alt)
1 lb 10 oz steak
1 oz ﬂ  our (or cornstarch)
4 1/2 oz forbidden forest
mushrooms
Juice of 1 lemon
2 T oil
1 oz butter
1 onion
2 T Worcestershire sauce
1 T tomato paste
4 ﬂ   oz (1/2 cup) dark beer (alcohol-
free)
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) beef broth
1 t thyme leaves
1 bay leaf
6 oz puﬀ   pastry
7 oz shortcrust pastry
1 egg yolkFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
harry potter
LITTLE STEAK 
AND KIDNEY PIES
75The Basilisk, a gigantic serpent with sharp and venomous fangs, has a murderous gaze that 
petriﬁes whoever meets its eyes. During Harry’s second year at Hogwarts, it is a Basilisk 
introduced by Lord Voldemort that spreads terror throughout the school.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins   
 We, obedient Servants of the Master, rinse the watercress and break its stems.
 We then wash, peel, and slice the potatoes.
 Next, we draw 2 pints (4 cups) of water and heat it over very high heat in a 
large cauldron. When large bubbles appear, we add the potato slices and let 
them cook for 35 to 40 minutes, until the tip of a large knife easily penetrates 
their ﬂesh.
 We add the watercress and continue cooking for 5 minutes, before blending 
in a food processor. We, Servants of the Master, know that the soup with the 
gaze of the Basilisk should be as green as the scales of the King of Serpents.
 Meanwhile , we shall cook the eggs for precisely 9 minutes in boiling water. 
We will plunge them immediately into iced water to crack their shell and we 
will cut them carefully to take out the nice round whole yolks. We know that the 
Master pays particular attention to this detail!
 We then cut a slice oﬀ one side of each egg yolk so it stays still when it is 
placed on the plate, and slice the olive into thin narrow strips.
  Once the egg yolk has been placed in the middle of a deep plate, we pour in 
the soup to reach halfway up the side of the plate and place a strip of olive on 
top of each yolk to form the pupil of the basilisk’s terrible yellow eye. We, your 
Servants, then hasten to serve.ingredients  • serves 4
1 large bunch watercress (or, if out of 
season, a mixture of lettuces)
2 medium potatoes
2 pt (4 cups) water
4 eggs
1 black oliveSOUP WITH THE GAZE OF 
LORD VOLDEMORT’S BASILISK
FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
harry potter
76Never risk provoking the wrath of a magician or you could ﬁnd yourself under a spell and 
having to wait quite some time before someone comes along to break it. This is what happened 
to the Duﬄepuds (the inhabitants of one of the islands of Narnia): tired of hearing their 
perpetual whining, a resident magician allowed them to use his magic. They turned into  
. . . I dare not say. . . . Anyhow, it is better to make friends with sorcerers, and they will turn 
your meals into feasts. Like the one that was served on this distant island set in warm seas to 
Caspian, Edmund, Lucy, and Eustace, and which inspired this recipe.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 10 mins 
resting time  • 1 hr
 Shell the crab, making sure to remove any pieces of shell and cartilage, drain 
it if necessary, and set aside in a covered bowl.
 In a bowl, mix the breadcrumbs with the egg, fromage blanc, mustard, and 
Worcestershire sauce. Taste and season with salt and pepper.
 Add the crabmeat, mix together, and shape the mixture into 8 croquettes. 
Cover with plastic wrap, and let them rest them for 1 hour in the refrigerator.
 Peel the avocado and remove the seed. Halve the lemon, slice the avocado , 
and squeeze over the lemon juice so the avocado doesn’t discolor.
 Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a nonstick frying pan, then fry the croquettes 
for about 3 to 5 minutes on each side, depending on their size. Serve with the 
avocado and a squeeze of lemon juice.ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz crab
3 1/2 oz breadcrumbs
1 egg
2 T fromage blanc
1 T whole-grain mustard
1 t Worcestershire sauce
Salt and pepper
1 avocado
1 lemon
Neutral-ﬂavored oil (grapeseed, 
sunﬂower . . .)FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the world of narnia
DUFFLEPUD ISLAND 
CROQUETTES
77In The Silver Chair , the fourth of the Narnia novels, the giants of Harfang Castle 
particularly enjoy children en croûte, a dish traditionally served during the Fall Feast. In the 
absence of any obliging infants, however, you can use veal. 
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Sear the veal roast in oil on all sides in a very hot frying pan, then let it rest.
 Rinse the basil leaves, dry them with a clean dish towel and, while you’re at 
it, you might like to dry last night’s crockery as well.
 Using a sharp knife, cut the mozzarella—not your ﬁngers!—into 1/4-inch 
slices.
 Grab a large rolling pin, ﬂatten the puﬀ pastry on your work surface as you 
would an enemy, and roll it out to a large circle 1/8-inch thick.
 The next step is crucial—focus! Three-quarters of an inch inside one edge of 
the pastry, place a row of Parma ham slices across the middle of the pastry to 
3/4 inch inside the opposite edge. Place the slices of mozzarella on top, then 
the dried tomatoes and basil. It all needs to form a neat, regular row—not be 
higgledy-piggledy like a bunch of slovenly mountain giants.
 Season with pepper—atchoo!—but do not add salt. Lay the roast on your 
beautiful neat row. Lightly moisten the edges of the pastry and fold the bottom 
and top over the veal, then fold over the sides. Press down gently on the pastry 
so the roast is snugly wrapped. Turn it over, dip a brush in the milk and brush 
all over.
 Make two holes in the pastry on top and at each end so that the steam can 
escape. Bake for 45 minutes before the king and queen of the mountain giants 
are ready to dine.ingredients  • serves 6 to 9 
giants
1 veal roast, 1 lb 10 oz
Olive oil 
6 basil leaves
3 1/2 oz buﬀalo mozzarella
9 oz puﬀ pastry (from your bakery/
cake shop)
6 slices Parma ham
6 sun-dried tomatoes
Pepper
1 glass milk FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the world of narnia
CHILDREN EN CROÛTE
78When Caspian, King of Narnia, in the company of Reepicheep the mouse knight, Lucy, 
Edmund, and Eustace, decides to go in search of the lost Lords of Narnia, he sets sail on a 
ship called the  Dawn Treader.  The crew experience s many adventures at sea and on land, 
and have to live oﬀ   the food on board and what they can ﬁ  nd around them. This soup was 
a particular favorite of Eustace. . . . At least, until he turned into a dragon! This recipe can 
easily be made on board a ship, using produce from the sea and supplies from the hold.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 25 mins
 Collect the clams on the island of Felimath, rinse them carefully, and place 
in a cauldron with about 4 oz of water. Boil them for 2 minutes, until the clams 
open, and discard any that remain closed. Drain the clams, saving the juices, 
and remove them from their shells. Strain and reserve the juices through a 
piece of cheesecloth.
 Chop the bacon and let it brown for a few minutes in a nonstick frying 
pan. Drain oﬀ   the excess fat and set the bacon aside on paper towels. Peel the 
shallot, sauté it for 5 minutes in the butter without browning, then add the 
bacon, thyme, and bay leaf before the ship reaches the Dark Island.
 Sprinkle with the ﬂ  our and let the shallot and bacon cook for 1 minute, 
stirring constantly. Slowly add the clam juice, stirring at the same time 
to prevent lumps forming, then add the potato chunks and simmer for 10 
minutes. Remove bay leaf and purée with a blender until the soup is quite 
smooth . Add the clams and the crème fraîche  or sour cream, reheat for 2 
minutes, season with salt and pepper, and serve.
Note: Reepicheep likes to add a handful of samphire to nibble with this soup.ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz clams
2 3/4 oz smoked bacon
1 shallot
1 1/2 oz butter
3 sprigs thyme
1 bay leaf
1 T ﬂ  our
2 cooked potatoes, chopped into 
chunks
1 3/4 oz crème fraîche or sour cream
Salt and pepperFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the world of narnia
DAWN TREADER SOUP
81The swamps. . . . Those dark, damp places that murmur with mysterious sounds and strange 
animals, giving us . . . goosebumps! Will you have the stomach to sample some Swamp Blob? 
Who knows what is hiding inside—or what it might have swallowed—before ending up on 
your plate.
preparation time  • 30 mins       cooking time  •  1 hr 30 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F. Place a bowl (to whip the cream) in the refrigerator 
or freezer to chill.
 Melt the butter. Make 20 cones out of aluminum foil. Lay out the sheets of 
brik pastry, brush them with the melted butter, then cut each one into four 
and roll the pieces into horns around the aluminum foil cones, buttered -side 
inside.
 Bake  the cones, seam-side down, for 10 minutes, keeping an eye on them as 
they cook: the horns should be golden and crispy. Take them out of the oven, 
carefully remove the aluminum foil, and let them cool completely.
 Meanwhile, beat the cream in the chilled bowl until it forms soft peaks.
 Soften the gelatin in a bowl of warm water. Peel the beets and purée them in 
a food processor. Rinse the radishes, remove the tops and tails, and dice.
 Drain the gelatin and mix it into the puréed beets. Add the whipped cream 
and fold through until the mixture is a smooth mousse. Add the diced radishes.
 Taste and season lightly with salt and generously with pepper. Fill the cones 
with the mousse, ﬁ  nishing by adding 1 teaspoon of lumpﬁ  sh roe in each.
Enjoy with friends . . . well . . .  as long as you are quite certain they are not 
sinister creatures masquerading as friends, out to trap you.ingredients  • serves 4
1 3/4 oz butter
5 sheets brik pastry
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) pouring cream, chilled
½ sheet gelatin
9 oz cooked red beets
1 bunch radishes
Salt and pepper
3 1/2 oz lumpﬁ  sh roeFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
goosebumps
SWAMP BLOB
83In Soup  a la Smurf , Gargamel lists an impressive number of dishes in which Smurfs are the 
main ingredients. This is one of the dishes he kept in reserve. . . .
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Roll the lemons back and forth several times between your palm and a 
tabletop, pressing down ﬁrmly. Then ﬂay the lemons with a grater or peeler to 
remove the zest. Cut them in half, and squeeze to collect the juice.
 Place the chicken in a dish, sprinkle over the zest and two-thirds of the lemon 
juice, cover, and marinate for the time it takes to cast a spell over the Smurfs.
 Catch the Smurfs. . . . Watch out! Too late . . . Wipe away the pepper thrown 
into your eyes by Jokey Smurf, bandage your ﬁngers injured by Handy Smurf’s 
hammer, and push Azrael out of the window, who has been watching the birds 
through the glass. Tie up the Smurfs so they don’t escape and wash them, 
making sure to remove the glasses of Brainy Smurf ﬁrst. Once they are tied 
together well, make them swallow a philosopher’s potion to turn them into 
spaghetti.
 Peel the onion, cut it into small pieces, and cook with the rest of the lemon 
juice and a small glass of water over low heat for 20 minutes , until really soft. 
Meanwhile, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil and 1 tablespoon of butter in a frying 
pan and add the drained pieces of chicken. Cook the cutlets (about 4 minutes 
per side), basting them regularly.  Season with salt and pepper.
 Serve the Smurf spaghetti, warmed quickly in the microwave, with the 
chicken and stewed onions, and sprinkled with parsley leaves. (Author’s note: 
no Smurfs were really harmed in the making of this recipe.)ingredients  • serves 4
2 lemons
4 chicken cutlets (you can also use 
leftover roast chicken)
5 1/2 oz live smurfs
(or 5 1/2 oz blue candy spaghetti)
1 onion
Olive oil and butter for frying
1 handful fresh parsley leaves
Salt and pepperFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
the smurfs
M OLECULARIZED SMURF 
SPAGHETTI 
84Be careful of what you wish for! If  you think like a dragon, behave like a dragon, and by 
some chance end up sleeping in a dragon cave, you may well wake up one ﬁ  ne morning and 
ﬁ  nd you have turned into one. Imagine what it would be like if you found yourself covered 
in scales, breathing ﬁ  re, ﬂ  ying through the air, and guarding eggs like these!
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 35 mins
resting time  • 30 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F. Wash and peel the potatoes and grate them 
ﬁ  nely. Do the same with the onion (protect your eyes with a Dry -eye spell if 
necessary).  Mix together the potatoes, onion, and 1 of the eggs. Season with 
salt and pepper. Divide this mixture between 8 tartlet pans, pressing it up the 
sides to make nests. Bake in the oven for 35 minutes.
 Meanwhile, cook the rest of the eggs for 9 minutes in boiling water, then 
plunge them in iced water to stop the cooking process. Tap each egg with the 
back of a spoon to break the shell without removing it.
 Place each egg in a freezer bag, then pour in a few drops of food coloring and 
1 tablespoon of water so the egg is fully immersed in colored water. Let it rest 
for 20 minutes.
 Take the eggs out of the bags, peel them and place them in a bag containing a 
diﬀ  erent coloring, if you wish. Let them rest for 10 minutes, then remove the 
eggs and drain them on paper towels.
 Make the béchamel sauce: Melt the butter and, when it starts to brown, add 
the ﬂ  our. Cook for 2 minutes, then add the milk, stirring constantly to avoid 
lumps.  Season with salt and pepper, add the turmeric , and cook for 5 minutes 
over low heat, stirring.
 Unmold the potato nests, ﬁ  ll them with sauce and a Dragon  egg, and sprinkle 
with chopped cilantro .ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz potatoes
1 onion
5 eggs
Salt and pepper
1 T chopped coriander leaves
Natural food colorings (beet juice, 
spinach juice, curry powder. . .)
Béchamel sauce
¾ oz butter
2 T ﬂ  our
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) milk
Salt and pepper
¼ t turmericFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
dungeons & dragons
DRAGON EGGS
87One day when the cook was preparing a roast leg of lamb, the Dragon Inn was attacked by 
a troop of warriors from the ice lands. Legend has it that a small group fought valiantly to 
defend not just their lives but their meal, too! During the ﬁ  ght, a pot of sauce was tipped  
over the lamb that was cooking in the ﬁ  replace. Once peace had been restored, the warriors 
proclaimed it the best they had ever eaten!
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  •  7 hrs
resting time  • 2 nights
 When night is falling over the narrow streets, when good people are returning 
to their homes and others emerging from their lairs, crush the cloves and mix 
them with the cinnamon, cumin, and ginger.  Rub this mixture over the lamb, 
then wrap it in plastic wrap and let it stand overnight in the refrigerator.
 When the rays of dawn are caressing the roof of the inn, peel the garlic and 
onion (remove the sprout inside the garlic), then the carrot, and slice them all 
thinly.
 Heat some olive oil in a large cauldron or heavy-based pan and sear the lamb 
on all sides until browned all over. Remove from the pan and set aside.
 Sauté the garlic, onion and carrot in the pan for 5 minutes. Add 16 ﬂ   oz (2 
cups) water and the cider vinegar, then the honey, and season with salt and 
pepper, stirring all the time so everything blends together well. Add the bay 
leaf and rosemary. Return the lamb to the pan and let it simmer for 7 hours 
over low heat, turning every hour and basting regularly with the sauce.
 Take the pan oﬀ   the heat and let it cool completely. Return the cooled lamb 
to the refrigerator where no giant can detect its delicious aroma. The next 
day, gently reheat the lamb. Strain the cooking juices and serve with the meat 
before the dracs and trolls get too impatient and come to blows.ingredients  • serves 6
2 cloves
½ t ground cinnamon
½ t ground cumin
½ t ground ginger
1 lamb leg roast (3 lb 5 oz)
2 garlic cloves 
1 onion
1 carrot
Olive oil
4 T cider vinegar
6 T honey
Salt and pepper
1 bay leaf
2 T freshly picked rosemary leavesFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
dungeons & dragons
RED DRAGON INN ROAST LAMB
89A delicious dish, ideal for a banquet between ﬁ  ghting arch enemies or for the chilly days of 
winter.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 1 hr 15 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 When the wolves are howling and hunting deer around the castle, peel and 
remove the sprout from the middle of the garlic, then add it to a pot of boiling 
water with the clove. Cook for 30 minutes then remove the clove and carefully 
drain the garlic.
 Meanwhile, cut the bacon into slices and cook in a frying pan over high heat 
until the pieces are golden brown and crispy. Mix together the garlic, bacon, 
cheese, raisins, and eggs, and season lightly with salt (the bacon is already salty) 
and generously with pepper.
 Roll out the pastry, use it to line a tart pan, then ﬁ  ll with the garlic mixture. 
Bake for 45 minutes and enjoy before the next battle begins.ingredients  • serves 6
3 1/2 oz young garlic
1 clove
3 1/2 oz smoked bacon
10 1/2 oz plain petit-suisse  cheese
1 3/4 oz raisins
2 eggs
Salt and pepper
9 oz shortcrust pastry
(from your bakery/cake shop)FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
dungeons & dragons
GARLIC TART
91Specially prepared by the Druids for their annual conference in the Forest of the Carnutes, 
this dish is also ideal in the fall, when indomitable Gauls from Brittany come to dinner. Serve 
with some magic potion!
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  •  1 hr 30 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F. Make a sauce by mixing together the honey , 
mustard, salt, pepper, and the herbs you picked fresh with dew at sunrise.
 Rub the meat with this mixture, place in a roasting pan, pour in a small glass 
of water, and add the diced butter. Place in the oven and cook for the time it 
takes for a quick chat between Druids (about 45 minutes), basting regularly 
with the juices.
 Peel the onions with a silver-bladed knife, then cut them into quarters.  Try 
not to cry.
 Once the chat is ﬁnished, pour the ale over the boar and scrape around the 
meat well with a wooden spoon to collect and mix in any browned bits from 
the bottom of the pan. Add the pieces of onion and return to the oven for 
another 30 minutes, the time it takes a bard to chant a mystical rhyme.
 Arrange the cranberries around the boar, making sure they are well-covered 
in the sauce. Return the boar to the oven for another 15 minutes, or the time 
it takes to don your most becoming cambric tunic.
 Remove the boar from the oven, and let it rest for 10 minutes while the 
Druid elders make an interminable speech. Finally, enjoy the meal, chanting.ingredients  • serves 4
1 3/4 oz honey
1 3/4 oz mustard seeds (or whole-
grain mustard)
2 T mixture of chopped fresh thyme, 
rosemary, and parsley
Salt and pepper
10 1/2 oz boar ﬁllets (or other part 
thick enough to carve slices from)
1 3/4 oz diced butter
3 onions
1 amphora of ale (1 bottle of dark 
beer)
3 T cranberriesFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
asterix and obelix
CARNUTES BOAR
93FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
willow
This dish is specially prepared by the brave and loyal Willow Ufgood for the spring festival, 
where he hopes to be selected as a new apprentice by the High Aldwin.
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  •  1 hr 30 mins
 Wash and peel the carrots and parsnips, and slice them into rounds.
 Peel the onions and garlic, removing the sprout in the middle, and slice 
them very thinly.
 Rinse and shred the sage leaves.
 Brown the pork on all sides with a little oil in a ﬂ  ameproof casserole dish on 
high heat.
 Add the vegetables, the sage leaves, and a small glass of water, reduce the 
heat, and cook for 1 hour. Stir regularly, adding a little water if necessary and 
turning the roast every 20 minutes.
 After 50 minutes of cooking time, remove the lid from the casserole dish, stir 
in the honey, season with salt and pepper, and let it ﬁ  nish cooking uncovered.ingredients  • serves 6
6 carrots
2 parsnips
2 onions
2 garlic cloves
6 sage leaves
1 pork loin roast (2 1/4 lb)
Olive oil
1 T honey
Salt and pepperROAST PORK 
WITH NELWYN VEGETABLES
95Look closely—are you absolutely sure that this is a spicy turkey taco? Or has a much more 
fearsome creature taken its place while your back was turned? If leftover turkey can be 
transformed into a delicious dish to enjoy with friends, who knows what else it is capable of?
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 1 h r 20 mins
 Rinse the chili peppers, cut them into four, and soak them for 1 hour in a 
large saucepan ﬁ  lled with boiling water.  
 Strain the chili peppers and reserve the liquid but discard the skin and seeds.
Peel and chop the onions and garlic cloves, ﬁ  rst removing the sprout from the 
garlic.
 Blend the peeled and seeded chilis in a food processor with the garlic, onion, 
almonds, black sesame seeds, tomatoes, and spice mix, and season with salt 
and pepper.
 Pour the mixture into a saucepan over very low heat and thin out with the 
chicken broth, adding a little at a time and stirring. When it has a creamy 
consistency, add the cocoa powder and turkey pieces and cook for 5 minutes 
more.
 Warm the tortillas in the oven for 5 minutes. Fill the tortillas with the turkey, 
top with sauce, and serve hot.
Warning: Never read this recipe three times in a row under the light of a full moon; who knows what 
could happen . . .ingredients  • serves 4
10 dried mild chili peppers
2 onions
2 garlic cloves
2 3/4 oz almonds
2 T black sesame seeds 
3 tomatoes
1 t quatre-épices spice mix (pepper, 
nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger)
Salt and pepper
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) chicken broth
1 3/4 oz unsweetened cocoa
powder
10 1/2 oz leftover turkey (no bones)
4 corn tortillasFEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
goosebumps
SHADOWY CREATURE
96The night that Belle arrives at the Beast’s castle, her grief is so great that she refuses to eat. 
The invisible cooks use all of their creative culinary gifts to bring back her smile and appetite.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 It can be a little disconcerting not to be able to see the servants when they 
have been rendered invisible under a spell.  That is why it is recommended to 
prepare this recipe yourself.
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Roll out the shortcrust pastry on a ﬂ  oured surface and cut out circles 1 1/4 
inches wider than the diameter of your tartlet pans.
 Place the circles of pastry in the pans, crimping the edges for decoration. 
Place a piece of parchment paper inside the pastry shells, pour 1/2 inch of 
ceramic baking beans or dried beans on top of each, and bake blind for 25 
minutes.
 Meanwhile, trim the base of the mushrooms, brush them carefully, clean 
with a damp cloth, and slice them thinly.
 Peel the shallots and chop them ﬁ  nely. Mix them with the breadcrumbs, egg, 
and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper.
 Remove the tartlets from the oven, and remove the pieces of parchment 
paper and beans. Fill the tartlet cases with the shallot and breadcrumb mixture, 
lay the mushroom slices on top, and brush with melted butter. Bake for 20 
minutes. Serve warm.ingredients  • makes 8 
tartlets
9 oz shortcrust pastry
(from your bakery/cake shop)
Flour for your work surface
3 1/2 oz porcini mushrooms
3 shallots
2 T fresh white breadcrumbs
1 egg
Juice of 1 lemon
Salt and Pepper
1 3/4 oz butter, meltedBEAUTY’S TARTLETS
FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
Beauty and the Beast
99In his strange castle where torches and candelabra are ﬁ  xed to the walls by human arms, 
the Beast initially refuses to join Beauty at mealtimes. But as time passes and their aﬀ  ection 
grows, they dine together and enjoy dishes that were popular in the seventeenth century—
when Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont wrote the most popular version of this tale—such 
as these lamb chops with peas.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Preheat the oven to 450°F. Shell the peas and cook them for 4–5 minutes in 
a large saucepan of boiling water. Wash and peel the onions and cut them into 
thin strips.
 Heat  a 4-ounce glass of water in a large pot, add the spring onions, and let 
them simmer for 10 minutes, then lower the heat and add 1 oz of the butter. 
Continue cooking for another 15 minutes, then drain.
 Melt the remaining butter, brush it over the chops, place them in a baking 
dish, and cook them in the oven for 20 minutes. At the end of this time, wrap 
them in a sheet of aluminum foil and let them rest for 5 minutes.
 Meanwhile, make the béchamel sauce: Melt the butter and, when it starts 
to brown, add the ﬂ  our. Cook for 2 minutes, then add the milk, stirring 
constantly to avoid lumps. Season with salt and pepper, add the turmeric , and 
cook for 5 minutes on low heat, stirring.
 Add the spring onions, season with salt and pepper, and cook for 5 minutes 
over low heat, still stirring. Stir in the crème fraîche  or sour cream. Serve the 
chops with the peas and sauce.
 The fact that the dishes sometimes appear and disappear from the table by 
themselves is just something you get used to .ingredients  • serves 4
1 lb 2 oz fresh peas
3 1/2 oz spring onions
1 3/4 oz butter
8 lamb chops
Béchamel sauce
1 oz butter
1 oz ﬂ  our
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) milk
Salt and pepper
2 T crème fraîche or sour cream
TurmericTHE BEAST’S CHOPS
FEASTS FOR SPECIAL DAYS
beauty and the beast
101chapter iii
MARVELOUS
SNACKS AND
SWEETS
102
The Eye of Agamotto • Shortbread with raspberries and white chocolate cream
Poisoned Apples • Candy apples
Toast for Disobedient Children • Toast with sweet omelet and fruit compote
Raspberry Cakes • Raspberry madeleines
Strawberry Ice Cream • Homemade strawberry ice cream
Scourer Repellents • Tomato gelatin squares with popping sugar
Treacle Tart • Treacle tart
Werewolf Biscuits • Black Forest–style shortbread desserts
Nathaniel’s Reminders • Pumpkin cookie pops
Djinn Desserts • Date and sesame balls
Chocolate Frogs • Frog-shaped chocolates
Elven Waybread (Lembas) • Cookies with dried fruit and nuts
Jafar’s Jewels • Shortbread with honey and hazelnuts
Delights of the Lamp • Gazelle horn-style cookies
Magica De Spell’s Lucky Dimes • Chestnut ﬂour shortbread 
Fairy Melusine’s Pastry • Tart with prunes
Patapumpkins • Pumpkin candies
Circe’s Charm • Cheesecake with honey
Witches’ Council Jello Ring • Fruit gelatin mold
Alakazam Cookies • Buckwheat shortbread with sesame
Titania’s Delight • Fruit parfait with meringue and whipped cream
The White Witch’s Turkish Delight • Rosewater Turkish delight
Sword Coast Tart • Cranberry tart105
107
109
111
112
113
115
117
119
120
121
123
125
126
129
130
133
135
137
138
140
143
145The long initiation period of Dr . Strange’s  young disciple is at an end. He is ﬁnally prepared 
to counter the forces of evil and Baron Mordo. To assist him in this task, the doctor gives him 
two mystical items that will be very useful: the Cloak of Levitation and the Eye of Agamotto, 
the amulet with clairvoyant powers. May it never fall into the wrong hands!
preparation time  • 1 hr       cooking time  • 15 mins
resting time  • 30 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Place the ﬂour, sugar, and cinnamon in a mixing bowl. Swirl it all together 
using the Cloak of Levitation.
 Cut the butter into pieces and add it to the ﬂour. Rub between your ﬁngers  
tips until the mixture looks like coarse meal.
 Beat the egg in a bowl, then add it to the dough. Lay the Cloak of Le vitation 
over the dough and let it rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
 On a ﬂoured surface, roll out the dough  to 5mm and cut out 8 circles with a 
cookie cutter.
 Using the oﬀcuts, roll small balls of dough and place them around the edge  
of the circles.
 Bake in the oven for 10 minutes and allow to cool.
 Place the cream, mascarpone, and vanilla in a bowl. Beat everything together 
until ﬁrm peaks form by creating a tornado or using a whisk.
 Use your mystical powers to melt the white chocolate in a water bath (or see 
page 121) and fold it gently into the cream.
 Complete  the amulets of Agamotto by piping the cream in the shape of an  
eye and adding a raspberry for the iris.ingredients  • 8 cookies
The cookie dough
5 1/2 oz ﬂour + extra for work 
surface
2 3/4 oz superﬁne sugar
3 pinches ground cinnamon
2 3/4 oz butter
1 egg
The cream
4 ﬂ oz (1/2 cup) pouring cream (30% 
dairy fat)
4 1/2 oz mascarpone cheese
1 t vanilla powder
1 3/4 oz white chocolate
Decoration
3 1/2 oz raspberriesTHE EYE OF AGAMOTTOMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
doctor strange
105Delicious and irresistible. . . . These apples are ideal if, like the witch from Snow White, you 
think that the best way to ensure that an act of revenge is carried out properly is to do it yourself.
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 10 mins
resting time  • 15 mins
 Conjure up some lightning in your secret laboratory so you can see more 
clearly, then summon the spirit of the Mirror.
 Rinse the apples, remove the stems and insert wooden twigs or sticks into the 
center, pushing them in well so they are secure.
 Roll the lemon back and forth several times across a work surface under the 
palm of your hand, pressing ﬁ  rmly, then cut it in half and collect the juice.
 In a cauldron as black as your soul, melt the fructose with the lemon juice 
and bring to a boil. When the candy is golden but not yet coppery, add 4 drops 
of blue coloring to each 1 drop of black (according to the Mirror’s advice).
 Mix and remove from the heat.
 Dip the apples in the candy, coating them completely with both the sugar and 
your resentment.
 Place  the apples on a plate lined with parchment paper and let them cool 
completely, until the candy is as dry as your heart.ingredients  • serves 4
4 Granny Smith apples
1 lemon
1 lb 2 oz fructose (health food 
section of your store)
Blue and black liquid food coloringMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
snow white and the seven dwarfs
POISONED APPLES
107When Mr. Brown’s children ﬁ  nally admitted that life was much better when they listened to 
Nanny McPhee, she made them this toast, which they all agreed was delicious.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 20 mins
 Ask Mrs . Blatherwick to peel the pears and cut them into small cubes with 
sides measuring exactly 0.43 inches.  Roughly crush the hazelnuts.
 Go in search of the last frying pan the Brown children have not turned into 
a gong or a tennis racquet, and melt half of the butter. Pour in the honey and 
let it caramelize for a few moments, then add the pieces of pear, hazelnuts, 
raisins, and cinnamon. Mix gently so the honey coats all the ingredients.
 Let the mixture cook for 10 minutes, the time it takes you to check that the 
children are at last playing nicely in the parlor (without jumping on the seats 
or painting the baby blue).
 Break the eggs into a bowl and lightly beat them together. Add the rest of 
the butter to the frying pan and add the beaten eggs. Let them cook for 2 or 3 
minutes before gently shaking the pan so the omelet doesn’t stick.
 Cook for 5 to 8 minutes in total, while Evangeline toasts the slices of bread, 
then slide the omelet onto a large plate, folding it like a turnover.
 Cut the omelet into six pieces, slide one onto each piece of toasted bread, add 
a spoonful of fruit, nut, and honey mixture, and enjoy, ignoring the whispers 
and giggles of the children who claim that even this morning your face was still 
festooned with warts and a mustache. . . . Ri-di-cul-ous!ingredients  • serves 6
2 pears
4 1/2 oz hazelnuts
1 3/4 oz butter
1 1/2 oz honey
1 oz raisins
½ t ground cinnamon
6 eggs
6 slices artisan-style breadMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
nanny mcphee
TOAST 
FOR DISOBEDIENT CHILDREN
109Mary Poppins has a real passion for raspberry cakes. She adores eating them with her friend 
Bert when they take afternoon tea inside one of his pictures.
preparation time  • 15 mins        cooking time  • 8 mins
 Preheat the oven to 450°F.
 While Bert makes one of his chalk drawings, melt the butter and let it cool to 
warm. Break the eggs into a mixing bowl and beat them together quickly. For 
increased eﬃ   ciency, ask the whisk to do the beating by itself.
 While Bert draws a green meadow with a stream trickling across it, beneath 
the eyes of the delighted children, take the opportunity to sift the ﬂ  our and 
baking powder into the bowl with the beaten egg, and mix together. Add the 
sugar and mix again, then pour in the melted butter and mix once more.
 While the children point out that they can see horses racing across the 
meadow, pour a spoonful of the batter into each hole of a madeleine mold. 
Next, add a teaspoon of raspberry purée and cover with more cake batter, 
ﬁ  lling the holes by two-thirds only to avoid overﬂ  owing during baking.
  Bake for 4 minutes, lower the temperature to 350°F, and bake for a further 
4 minutes.
 Turn out the madeleines and let them cool just for the time it takes to pick 
up an umbrella, put on your coat, and jump into the picture, too.ingredients  • 16 cakes
2 3/4 oz butter
2 eggs
2 3/4 oz ﬂ  our
1 t baking powder
2 3/4 oz superﬁ  ne sugar 
3 1/2 oz raspberry purée
(in the baby food section of your 
store)MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
mary poppins
RASPBERRY CAKES
111Everyone knows that Mary Poppins is a model nanny. Under her care, children would never 
dance a wild jig across the rooftops of London, buy sweets in an invisible shop, ride a carousel 
in a picture drawn on the ground, or slide backward down the bannister. You can rest assured 
that none of this would happen. But I am going to share with you one of Mary’s secrets: this 
wonderful strawberry ice cream. There’s nothing like it to reward well-behaved children and 
ensure they stay that way . . . at least for a little while.
preparation time  • 15 mins       freezing time  • 1 night
 Rinse and remove the stems of the strawberries. Set 6 strawberries aside and 
ﬁ  nely dice them.
 Mash the rest of the strawberries to a purée.
 Pour the sugar into a dish and dissolve it in the spring water and lemon 
juice, mixing well .
 Incorpor ate the whipped cream, strawberry purée, and diced strawberries 
and mix again. 
 Pour into ice pop molds or six small yogurt tubs, and let stand in the 
refrigerator overnight or until Admiral Boom ﬁ  res his cannon.ingredients  • makes 6 ice 
creams
1 lb 2 oz strawberries
1 lb 2 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) spring water 
Juice of 1 lemon
1 lb 2 oz whipped creamMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
mary poppins
STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM
112The infamous Scourers made witch-hunting their specialty. But fortunately for the magical 
community, a certain Dunbarion Bluemountain created these repellents, rendering witches 
and wizards totally undetectable to any Scourers hunting in the vicinity.
preparation time  • 15 mins       refrigeration time  • 2 hrs
 Rinse the tomatoes in a large quantity of water, without ﬂ  ooding your 
laboratory.
  Submerge the tomatoes for 2 minutes in a saucepan of boiling water (or 
cast a Geyserpuﬀ   spell), then purée in a food processor.
 Carefully strain the liquid; it mustn’t contain any leaves or bits of stem.
 Pour the liquid into a cauldron, add the balsamic vinegar , and heat gently, 
adding the sheets of gelatin one by one. Once the gelatin is completely 
dissolved, pour into a dish lined with parchment paper and let it rest for 2 
hours in the refrigerator.
 Pour the popping sugar into a bowl.
 Turn out the tray of tomato gelatin onto a work surface covered with 
parchment paper. Cut out 1 1/2 -inch squares and roll them in the popping 
sugar.
 Keep the repellents away from moisture and pop one in your mouth as soon 
as you get wind of approaching Scourers.ingredients  
• makes about 20 foils
2 1/4 lb tomatoes, very ripe
2 T balsamic vinegar
8 sheets gelatin
7 oz popping sugar
 MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
fantastic beasts
SCOURER REPELLENTS
113Never mind that you have to face an uncooperative dragon at a Triwizard Tournament or 
that your best friends are quarreling, do as Harry does: enjoy a slice of treacle tart and forget 
your troubles till not a crumb is left.
preparation time  • 20 mins        cooking time  • 1 hr
resting time  • 30 mins
 Sift the ﬂ  our into a bowl containing 1 1/2 oz of the butter, cut into pieces, 
and rub together with your ﬁ  ngertips. When the mixture looks like coarse 
meal, add the egg and the salt, and 3 or 4 tablespoons of water collected from 
the lake on a starry night. Mix together well, roll into a ball, cover with plastic 
wrap, and let rest in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Roll out the dough on a ﬂ  oured surface to a thickness of 1/8 inch and lay 
it in a round buttered tart ring. Prick the base using a fork, or simply use a 
Hedgehog-Roller spell. Lay a sheet of parchment paper on top, cover with 
ceramic baking beans or dried beans, and bake blind for 20 minutes.
 Remove the beans and sheet of parchment paper.
 Lower the oven temperature to 325°F.
 In a small cauldron or pan on low heat, melt the golden syrup, then add the 
remaining butter, cut into pieces, and the lemon juice. Take the pan oﬀ   the 
heat, mix in the breadcrumbs or cornﬂ  akes, and pour into the tart base.
 Bake for 20 minutes in the oven, then lower the temperature to 275°F and  
bake for another 15 to 20 minutes, until the tart is golden brown and the 
ﬁ  lling soft.
 Let it cool and serve with whipped cream.ingredients  • serves 8
The pastry
7 oz ﬂ  our + extra for work surface
3 1/2 oz butter, cut into pieces
1 egg
1 pinch salt
The ﬁ  lling
15 ﬂ   oz golden syrup
(international food section of your 
store)
2 1/4 oz butter, cut into pieces
Juice of 1 lemon
5 1/2 oz breadcrumbs (or cornﬂ  akes)MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
harry potter
TREACLE TART
115A werewolf never turns its snout up at a good, crunchy meal. The ideal of course would be a 
“real” werewolf meal, a fresh and juicy human for example. As a substitute, these sweet “dog 
biscuits” with a drizzle of syrup will still have him licking his chops.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
resting time  • 15 mins
 Begin by crushing the shortbread cookies to very ﬁ  ne crumbs in a bowl. Melt 
the butter and mix with the crumbs, then place 4 pastry rings, 3 1/4 inches in 
diameter, on plates and pack the crumbs inside, pressing them down to make 
bases. Place the plates in the refrigerator for 15 minutes.
 Place the whipped cream in a bowl. Gently melt the chocolate in another 
bowl (see page 121) and let it cool to just warm. Mix it into the whipped 
cream, not forgetting to taste and add some sugar if necessary. Place in the 
refrigerator with the bases.
 Now drain the cherries, pouring the juice into a small pan, and set aside the 
cherries. Boil the juice hard for 15 minutes until it becomes thick and syrupy.
 Take the bases out of the refrigerator, remove the rings, and place some 
cherries in a circle on top (set a few aside for decoration).
 Take a piping bag (or a freezer bag with a corner cut oﬀ  ), ﬁ  ll with the chocolate 
cream,  and pipe over the cherries. Decorate with the remaining cherries, 
pressing them on lightly so they don’t fall oﬀ  . Finish by adding a generous 
spoonful of the cherry syrup on top of each dessert. Serve immediately.ingredients  • serves 4
7 oz shortbread cookies
1 oz butter, melted
7 oz sweetened whipped cream
7 oz semisweet chocolate
Sugar, as needed
1 jar (or approximately 17 ounces) 
black cherries in syrup (morello 
cherries . . .)MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
goosebumps
W EREWOLF BISCUITS
117Before he was known as John Mandrake, Nathaniel, the youngest minister of all time, was a 
small boy who, like all children of his age, loved sweet things. The only diﬀ  erence was that he 
also possessed extraordinary magical gifts. So what could be better than these delicious magic 
wands to take him back, as if by magic, to the sweetness of childhood?
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
resting time  • 15 mins
 Steam the pumpkin for 25 minutes, until it is easily pierced with the tip of 
a knife, then place it in a strainer and let it drain.
 Sift the ﬂ  our and salt into a bowl, add the ground hazelnuts, 4 ﬂ   oz (1/2 
cup) lukewarm water and the diced butter, and mix together. Knead until you 
have a smooth, non-sticky dough, adding a little more water or ﬂ  our if too 
dry or sticky. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let it rest for 15 minutes in 
the refrigerator.
 Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 350°F and mash the pumpkin to a smooth 
purée. Add the maple syrup.
 Flour a work surface, roll the dough out thinly (about 1/8 inch) and cut 
out whatever shapes you like using a cookie cutter. Place one teaspoon of 
pumpkin purée in the middle of each shape, then place a lollipop stick on 
top, cover with a second pastry shape, and seal the edges by pressing them 
gently together with a fork.
 Place the lollipops on a baking sheet, brush with a little egg yolk, and bake 
for 25 minutes: they should be golden brown, not copper-colored.ingredients  • 10 lollipops
9 oz pumpkin, peeled 
(frozen if out of season)
9 oz ﬂ  our + extra for work surface
1 pinch salt
1 T ground hazelnuts
3 1/2 oz butter
2 T maple syrup
1 egg yolk, for glazingMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
the bartimaeus trilogy
NATHANIEL’S REMINDERS
119How is it that Bartimaeus has come to ﬁnd himself making pastries for an ill-tempered 
wizard? He was sent to this boot camp for disobedient djinn by the great King Solomon—
bounteous be his beard! 
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
 Preheat the oven to 300°F.
 While trying to forget that Khaba the Cruel Magician has a silly air about 
him, melt 1 oz butter in a hot frying pan and add the dates and sesame seeds. 
Heat for 5 minutes on low heat and set aside.
 Sift the ﬂour and baking powder, add the salt, then 9 oz softened butter , 
and knead everything together. Add the egg, then 1 cup milk, and mix again 
until you have a smooth, malleable dough.
 Divide the dough into about 20 equal pieces. Form each piece into a small 
ball, hold it in the palm of your hand, and make a hole in the center using a 
spoon. Fill with some of the date mixture and close it up. Repeat until all the 
dough balls are ﬁlled.
 Place the balls on a sheet of parchment paper, brush with milk, and bake for 
15 minutes. Take the opportunity to quietly slip outside to enjoy some fresh 
air with the other djinn. Devour.ingredients  
• Makes about 20 balls
9 oz butter, softened + 1 oz for  
the dates
7 oz dates, mashed
2 T toasted sesame seeds
2 1/4 lb ﬂour
1 t baking powder
1 pinch salt
1 egg
8 ﬂ oz (1 cup) milk + a little for 
brushing on pastryMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
the bartimaeus trilogy
DJINN DESSERTS (see photo on page 118)  
120MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
harry potter
On board the Hogwarts Express , Ron introduces Harry to magic confectioneries. It was 
when he opened a box of chocolate frogs that Harry discovered a card bearing the name Albus 
Dumbledore, the famous headmaster of Hogwarts. These frogs are an unmissable treat in the 
world of magic; you just have to make sure they don’t jump too far.
preparation time  • 20 mins       resting time  • 3 hrs
 Break the chocolate into large pieces using a Crackling spell and place them 
in a heatproof bowl. Make a water bath to melt the chocolate. Fill a large 
pan partway with water, then place the heatproof bowl on top—it should be 
smaller than the pan but wide enough that its base is suspended in the water, 
but not touching the bottom of the pan.
 Place the pan over a gentle heat until the chocolate melts. (Make sure that  
there is enough water in the pan to heat the bowl.)  Divide the melted chocolate 
carefully between the frog-shaped molds so that it coats the insides thoroughly. 
Turn the molds over on a sheet of parchment paper to allow the excess chocolate 
to run oﬀ  . Let the frog cases chill in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
 Gently melt the marshmallows with a little water in a saucepan over a gentle 
heat until smooth and creamy.
 Take the frog cases out of the refrigerator, ﬁ  ll them with melted marshmallow, 
smoothing the top with a spoon , and set aside again in the refrigerator for at 
least 2 hours (the longer the frogs stay in the refrigerator, the better they are).
 Collect and melt the leftover chocolate as before, carefully cover the 
marshmallow ﬁ  lling with it, smoothing with a knife, and set aside for 30 
more minutes in the refrigerator.
 Unmold carefully and utter the Wrigglish spell to bring the frogs to life.ingredients  • serves 6
1 3/4 oz milk chocolate
1 3/4 oz semisweet chocolate
2 3/4 oz marshmallows
Frog-shaped moldsCHOCOLATE FROGS
121Wrapped in long leaves, these fortifying and nourishing cookies allow the Elves and their 
friends to survive in arid lands. It was Lembas that gave Frodo and Sam sustenance in their 
crossing of Mordor, to throw the Ring into Mount Doom and thus defeat Sauron.
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  • 20 mins
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Sift the ﬂ  our into a pottery bowl ﬁ  red during two equinoxes, then add the 
sugar, water, and salt. Mix well to make a smooth, homogenous dough.
  Break the nuts into small pieces. Dice  the dried  fruit into squares  of about 
1/2 inch.
 Using a rolling pin, roll out the dough on a ﬂ  oured work surface to a 
thickness of 1/2 inch, remembering to prick it with a fork so no bubbles form 
while it cooks.
 Cut the dough into squares half a Hobbit palm wide (about 2 inches).
 Place the cookies on a sheet of parchment paper, then sprinkle with the 
dried fruit and nuts. Bake for 10 minutes. Brush the top of the cookies with a 
little water or dew collected from the leaves of a golden tree, to form a lovely 
crust, and cook for another 10 minutes.
 Let the waybread cool before wrapping it up for your journey.ingredients  
• Makes about 20 cookies
1 lb 2 oz ﬂ  our + extra for work 
surface
9 oz light soft brown sugar
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) water collected from 
the leaves of a golden tree
1 pinch salt
4 1/2 oz nuts, shelled (almonds, 
walnuts, hazelnuts . . .)
4 1/2 oz dried fruit
(raisins, ﬁ  gs, apples. . . .)MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
the lord of the rings
ELVEN WAYBREAD (LEMBAS)
123Sound the trumpets and bang the drums! Make way for the great Jafar! May all bow down 
before him, or they will end up in chains! Speaking of which, the great Jafar is especially fond 
of these delicious little cookies.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 20 mins
 Send your most faithful servant to light the oven at 400°F.
 In a bowl scrubbed clean of all traces of poison (you can never be too 
careful!), mix the sifted ﬂ  our and baking powder with the honey.
 Seize a whisk and beat the egg whites savagely in another bowl (make sure it 
is clean, dry, and grease-free). When ﬁ  rm peaks form, add the butter, melted 
under the midday sun, and mix in gently.
 Pour the beaten egg whites onto the ﬂ  our-honey mixture and knead together 
until the dough is smooth and puts up no more resistance (if it sticks a little, 
throw in a little ﬂ  our; if it is too thick, have it drink a little water).
 Take a walnut-sized piece of dough, ﬂ  atten it with your hand , and make a 
hole in the middle with the handle of a wooden spoon. Turn the handle to 
enlarge the hole. Repeat until you run out of dough.
 Place the cookies on a sheet of parchment paper and scatter with the 
hazelnuts. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes until golden brown.
 Once they are cold, thread them onto a cord to wear over your shoulder, 
so they are easy to reach when you are feeling peckish, without having to get 
down from your horse or your ﬂ  ying carpet.ingredients  
• makes about 20 rings
11 1/2 oz ﬂ  our, sifted
1/4 oz baking powder
9 oz honey
2 egg whites
2 1/4 oz butter, melted
1 oz ground hazelnutsMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
aladdin
JAFAR’S JEWELS
125MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
aladdin
It is true that spending 1,001  nights in a lamp gives you time to ﬁ  ne-tune your recipes. When 
you taste thes small delicacies from the Orient you will soon be singing their praises!
preparation time  • 20 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
resting time  • 15 mins
 Caravan drivers with their camels cross miles of dusty desert to eat these 
pastries! To you, my Friend, I will reveal their secret.
 Make the pastry by rubbing together the sifted ﬂ  our and butter with your 
ﬁ  ngertips, until the mixture resembles the sand of the dunes, then stir in the 
superﬁ  ne sugar. Next, add the cinnamon and confectioners’ sugar and let it 
rest for the time it takes you to go and smell the roses of the Sultan.
 Place the almonds in a pan over a gentle heat without letting your mind 
wander, or else they will burn! And when they have turned the color of the 
sand of the oasis at sunrise . . . What’s that? You have never gazed upon the 
oasis at sunrise? Remind me to take you there. So, when the almonds are 
golden brown, grind them ﬁ  nely and mix them with the sugar, cinnamon, 
orange ﬂ  ower water, and rose petals. Shape the mixture into small balls.
 Heat the oven to 350°F.
 Using a rolling pin or rolled-up carpet, roll out the pastry dough 4mm 
thick on a ﬂ  oured surface and using an upturned glass or a cookie cutter, cut 
out an even number of circles from the dough. Place a ball of ﬁ  lling on half of 
the circles and place a second circle of pastry on top, sealing the edges so that 
the mischievous ﬁ  lling does not escape. Bake your little pastries in the oven 
for about 15 minutes.
 Be careful, my Friend, make sure they stay a light brown. Otherwise they 
will become hard like the pebbles on the edge of the oasis at sunrise. You still 
don’t know? Well then, we will go there tomorrow on my best ﬂ  ying carpet!ingredients  
• Makes about 20 delights
The pastry
1 lb 2 oz ﬂ  our + extra for work 
surface
7 oz butter, softened
3 T superﬁ  ne sugar
1 t ground cinnamon
2 T confectioners’ sugar
The ﬁ  lling
1 lb 2 oz sliced almonds
7 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
1 t ground cinnamon
1 T orange ﬂ  ower water
1 3/4 oz crystallized rose petalsDELIGHTS OF THE LAMP
126When she fails to steal Scrooge’s Number One Dime, Magica De Spell consoles herself by 
nibbling these cookies.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 20 mins
resting time  • 15 mins
 Spread out a very thin layer of the ﬂ  our in a nonstick frying pan and toast it 
for a few minutes on high heat (2 to 5 minutes, depending on the thickness 
of the layer). 
 Let the ﬂ  our cool, then sift it into a bowl and mix with the confectioners’ 
sugar, softened butter, salt, and ground almonds.
 Cut the vanilla bean in half lengthwise, scrape out the seeds with the back of 
a knife, and add them to the mixture.
 Roll out the dough between two sheets of parchment paper until it is as thin 
as an authentic ﬂ  orin (about 1/8 inch), then place the dough and paper in the 
refrigerator for 15 minutes to ﬁ  rm up.
 Preheat the oven to 325°F. Cut out circles in the dough with a glass or 
circular cookie cutter and place them on a baking sheet. Brush with beaten 
egg yolk and bake for 12 to 15 minutes until they are golden brown.ingredients  • serves 4
9 oz chestnut ﬂ  our 
4 1/2 oz confectioners’ sugar
4 1/2 oz butter, softened
1 pinch salt
2 1/4 oz ground almonds
1 vanilla bean
1 egg yolk, for glazingM AGICA DE SPELL’S LUCKY 
DIMESMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
magica de spell
129MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
melusine
The fairy Melusine, condemned to become part-woman, part-serpent every Saturday and 
stay out of sight of  her husband, gets a little bored on her French estate. What better way of 
passing the time than to make this delicious pastry to add some magic to her day?
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins   
refrigeration time  • 30 mins
 Soak the prunes in a bowl of lukewarm water for 30 minutes. Beat 1 egg 
with the 3 1/2 oz sugar in a bowl until the mixture becomes pale, then add the 
butter and mix together vigorously. Sift the ﬂ  our, baking powder, and salt, 
then add to the ﬁ  rst mixture and mix again. Shape the dough into a ball, wrap 
it in plastic wrap, and place it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.
 Meanwhile, drain the prunes and place them with 1 tablespoon sugar in a 
saucepan over low heat. Let them cook for 15 minutes, mashing them roughly 
with a fork.
 Preheat the oven to 375°F. Take the ball of dough out of the refrigerator 
and divide it into two equal portions. Roll out each portion on a ﬂ  oured work 
surface using a rolling pin to make two circles about 8 inches in diameter.
 Place a sheet of parchment paper on a baking sheet and place the ﬁ  rst circle 
of pastry on top. Spread the cooked prunes over the circle to about 5/8 inch 
inside the edge.
 Brush around the edge with a little water, then cover with the second circle of 
pastry. Press the edges down lightly to seal them as well as you can so the prune 
mixture can’t escape (use the tines of a fork if you need to). Brush the top with 
beaten egg yolk and bake for 30 minutes.  Allow it to cool completely, then 
enjoy under the midnight sun.ingredients  • serves 6
7 oz pitted prunes
1 egg + 1 egg yolk for glazing
3 1/2 oz superﬁ  ne sugar + 1 T for 
prunes
4 1/2 oz butter, softened
9 oz ﬂ  our + extra for work surface
1 t baking powder
1 pinch saltFAIRY MELUSINE’S PASTRY
130MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
halloween
Patapumpkins are a favorite candy of witches and wizards. Enjoyed at home by the whole family 
since the beginning of time and in schools of magic by generations of pupils, the rumor goes that 
certain teachers love them to the point of making Patapumpkins one of their favorite passwords!
Traditionally made with love for Halloween, try making this dish from diﬀ  erent varieties of 
pumpkin: a real delicacy!
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 10 mins
resting time  • 2 hrs 
 Don your protective gloves, and using a Rapidrinder spell, remove the rind 
of the pumpkin. Cut the ﬂ  esh into chunks, then chop into small pieces in a 
food processor.
 Place a small plate in the freezer or cast a level-3 Chill spell.
 Place the pumpkin, jam-making sugar, and lemon juice in a medium-sized 
cauldron and bring to a boil. Stir constantly, chanting, until the sugar has 
completely dissolved (this is essential for the recipe to succeed).
 After letting the pumpkin mixture simmer for 10 minutes, take the plate 
out of the freezer, drop a little mixture onto it, count to ten , and turn the 
plate up so it is vertical. The mixture is ready if it stays ﬁ  rmly in place as a 
paste. If it runs, keep simmering and repeat the test. 
 Place a sheet of parchment paper on a tray, overhanging the edges, then 
pour in the pumpkin mixture and let it cool for at least 2 hours.
 Once the paste has completely cooled, cut out your patapumpkins using a 
pumpkin-shaped cookie cutter (or a homemade cardboard stencil), then roll 
them in superﬁ  ne sugar so the candy won’t stick to your ﬁ  ngers.ingredients  • Makes 1 lb 2 oz
9 oz pumpkin (try diﬀ  erent 
varieties . . .)
11 1/2 oz jam-making sugar
1 squeeze lemon juice
Superﬁ  ne sugar, to ﬁ  nishPATAPUMPKINS
133MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
ulysses 31
In the TV series Ulysses 31 , Circe the enchantress wants to gather under one roof all the 
knowledge of the universe. She lures the crews of passing ships to her planet and puts them 
under a spell during an elaborate meal so that they stay with her forever and help her build up 
her intergalatic library.
preparation time  • 15 mins       resting time  • 1 hr
cooking time  • 20 mins       refrigeration time  • 30 mins 
Star date 2063.05.04 – Ship’s log of the Odysseus .
We were drawn in at subluminal speed by an unidentiﬁed  singularity which turned out to be the 
library-planet of Circe. My shipmates  Telemachus  and Yumi , protected by our droid Nono, 
went out to expore and were captured,  tempted by a dessert. I am entering the recipe  (translated 
into the common language ) into the databank of Sh irka, our shipboard computer .
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Sift the ﬂour and baking powder. Break the eggs, separating the whites from the 
yolks.  In a clean, dry bowl, beat the whites to ﬁrm peaks with the salt, add the 
sugar, and beat again . Pour in both egg yolks at once. Fold them in very gently, 
incorporating as much air as possible. Fold in the ﬂour and baking powder. 
 Pour into a n 8-inch square pan and bake in the oven for 20 minutes. Let it 
cool completely before unmolding.
 Whisk the fromage blanc and crème fraîche  together until smooth and 
creamy. Set aside in the refrigerator. Melt the honey and gelatin in a saucepan 
over very low heat.
 Place the génoise cake on a plate, trim it to the dimensions of the cake 
mold, and place at the bottom. Pour the chilled cream over top of it.
 Place in a cooling cell for 30 minutes.ingredients  • serves 4
2 3/4 oz ﬂour
1 t baking powder
2 eggs
1 pinch salt
2 3/4 oz superﬁne sugar
9 oz plain fromage blanc
3 3/4 oz crème fraîche (30% dairy fat)
3 1/2 oz honey
1 sheet of gelatinCIRCE’S CHARM
135This is a fresh and fruity version of the typical 1960s dessert, perfect for impressing all your 
housewitch friends at the next Tupperware party.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
refrigeration time  • 3 hrs
 When the moon is waxing, heat the pomegranate juice in a saucepan.
 When the ﬁ  rst bubbles appear, lower the heat and add the gelatin sheets, 
stirring until they are completely dissolved. Let the liquid cool for a quarter 
of an hour in mortal time, then add the soda and stir again.
 Rinse the berries and remove any stems if necessary.
 Pour the liquid into a 10 1/2 -inch ring mold, distribute the berries around 
the mold , and let it set in the refrigerator for 3 hours, or ideally a whole day. 
Serve chilled.ingredients  • serves 6
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) pomegranate juice
8 sheets of gelatin
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) soda
1 lb 2 oz berries, according to the 
season of the Witches’ CouncilW ITCHES’ COUNCIL JELLO 
RINGMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
bewitched
137MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
brocéliande forest
In the ﬁ  lm The Sword in the Stone , Merlin is a wizard living with his pet owl Archimedes 
in a cottage in the middle of the forest. Predicting exactly when Wart—his nickname for the 
future King Arthur—will arrive, Merlin organizes an afternoon tea for his young protégé.
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
resting time  • 30 mins
 Oyez, oyez!
 I give you the recipe for alakazam cookies, favored by our noble liege lord 
King Arthur! Invented by the great Merlin himself for the pleasure of young 
and old!
  Toast the sesame seeds in a pan for a few minutes over high heat. Remove  
and set aside. 
 Mix the ﬂ  our with the sugar, salt, cinnamon, and sesame seeds, then the 
eggs and softened butter. Roll out the dough between two sheets of parchment 
paper to a thickness of about 1/8 inch.
 Rest it in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes so it ﬁ  rms up.
 Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 
 Cut out rectangular cookies (2 x 2 3/4 inches), sprinkle the reserved sesame 
seeds on top, and cook in the oven for 10 to 15 minutes.ingredients  • serves 4
1 3/4 oz sesame seeds
7 oz buckwheat ﬂ  our
2 3/4 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
1 pinch salt
1 t ground cinnamon
2 eggs
2 1/2 oz butter, softenedALAKAZAM COOKIES
138MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
a midsummer night’s dream
Titania, the Queen of the Fairies, likes to amuse herself with Oberon, the King, holding 
banquets where the spirits of the forest indulge in delicious fruit-based desserts.
preparation time  • 5 mins
 Begin by washing and removing the stems of the fruits.
 Submerge the peaches for 1 minute in boiling water, then remove their skin 
and stones. Next, pit the cherries, and plums.
 Cut the cherries in two and dice the peaches and plums.
 Break the meringues into small pieces.
 Assemble the layers of the dessert in the following way: a ﬁ  rst layer of blue 
fruits (blackcurrants, blueberries, or blackberries), followed by 1 layer of 
meringue, and 1 layer of whipped cream.
 Continue in the same way, alternating layers of fruit, meringue, and 
whipped cream, making sure to place the fruit in the following order of color: 
blue, red, orange, yellow, and, ﬁ  nally, green.
 Finish by sprinkling roughly crushed toasted hazelnuts on the top layer of 
whipped cream.ingredients  • serves 4
3 1/2 oz yellow peaches (or apricots, 
melons)
3 1/2 oz cherries (or strawberries, 
raspberries)
3 1/2 oz greengage plums (or
kiwifruit)
4 meringues (from your local bakery)
3 1/2 oz black currants (or ripe
blueberries, blackberries)
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) whipped cream (or 
yogurt for a lighter version)
3 1/2 oz gooseberries (or white
peaches)
2 1/4 oz toasted and roughly crushed 
hazelnutsTITANIA’S DELIGHT
140MARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
the world of narnia
When Edmund Pevensie enters Narnia for the ﬁrst time through the magic wardrobe, he 
meets the White Witch. To win the young boy over, she oﬀers him the best Turkish delight that 
he has ever tasted.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 55 mins
resting time  • 1 night
 While Lucy, Peter, and Susan remain hidden between the coats inside the 
magic wardrobe, blend 2 3/4 oz cornstarch with 5 ﬂ oz (2/3 cup) water in a 
bowl and set aside.
 Bring the superﬁne sugar, lemon juice, and 4 ﬂ oz (1/2 cup) water to a boil 
in a saucepan. When the syrup reaches 240°F, add all the cornstarch mixture at 
once, stirring constantly  with a wooden spoon. Simmer for about 50 minutes 
over low heat, continuing to stir. The paste is ready when the light from the 
street lamp no longer illuminates the forest , and the mixture, now translucent, 
comes away from the sides of the saucepan and forms a ball around the spoon. 
If it doesn’t, continue cooking for a few more minutes. 
 Add the rose water and cook for another 5 minutes.
 Line a tray with parchment paper and sift over a thin layer of cornstarch, as 
ﬁne as the gentlest snow. Carefully spread the paste over the tray and smooth 
the top before letting it rest at room temperature for at least 12 hours, or 
overnight if possible.
 Pour the glass of confectioners’ sugar onto a plate, oil a knife , and cut the 
paste into 1 1/4 -inch cubes. Roll the Turkish delight in the confectioners’ 
sugar, tap oﬀ the excess, and store in an airtight container.ingredients  • makes 20 
pieces
2 3/4 oz cornstarch + more for sifting
10 1/2 oz superﬁne sugar
1 t lemon juice
1 T rosewater
1 glass confectioners’ sugar
Neutral-ﬂavored oilTHE WHITE WITCH’S TURKISH 
DELIGHT
143This traditional dish is enjoyed by Chaos Mages, treasure hunters of all kinds, and paladins 
between quests.
preparation time  • 15 mins       cooking time  • 45 mins
 Weigh out 1 3/4 oz of shortcrust pastry and set it aside for the decoration. 
Preheat the oven to 350°F.
 Peel the pears, remove the seeds, then dice and place the pears in a saucepan 
over high heat together with the maple syrup and cranberries. Stir the mixture 
until the cranberries burst.
 Sprinkle this syrupy mixture with the ﬂour; mix in well. Reduce the heat to 
medium and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, to reduce the syrup by 
about a third. Take the saucepan oﬀ the heat and let it cool completely.
 Meanwhile, use a rolling pin to roll out the pastry, lay it in a medium-sized 
tart pan, and prick with a fork to prevent air bubbles forming.
 Cover the pastry base and sides with aluminum foil, pour in some cer amic 
baking beans or dried beans, and bake blind for about 20 minutes.
 Roll out the pastry that you set aside. Cut out a dragon shape using a cookie 
cutter or a hand-drawn stencil cut from thin cardboard. Shape the rest of the 
pastry into lots of little sausages, roll them out and cut out claw shapes using 
a knife. 
 Remove the beans and aluminum foil. Sprinkle the base of the tart with the 
brown sugar, spread over the stewed fruit. Carefully lay the pastry dragon on 
top, arrange the claws around the edge of the tart, brush with milk , and bake 
for 25 minutes. Serve hot or cold.ingredients  • serves 4
10 1/2 oz shortcrust pastry 
(readymade, from your bakery/store)
2 pears
4 ﬂ oz (1/2 cup) maple syrup
1 lb 10 oz cranberries
1 oz ﬂour
6 oz brown sugar (demerara sugar or 
dark soft brown sugar)
Milk, for the glazeMARVELOUS SNACKS AND SWEETS
dungeons & dragons
SWORD COAST TART
145BEWITCHING
POTIONS
146chapter iv
Eternal Love Potion • Lavender and honey syrup
Ent-Draught • Berry syrup
Gandalf’s Pick-Me-Up • Summer fruit juice
Beorning Beverage • Cherry syrup
Elf-Made Wine (alcohol-free) • Fall fruit juice with spices
Memory Potion • Apple and pomegranate juice with vanilla
Genuine Butterbeer (alcohol-free) • Vanilla butterscotch ﬂoat (cold) 
Warm Butterbeer (alcohol-free) • Hot butterscotch milk
Green Potion • Cherry and kiwifruit mocktail
“Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious” Elixir • Peach, grapefruit, and cherry drink
Dragon Potion • Curaçao, apple, and cranberry syrup
The Witch-Queen’s Beauty Potion • Carrot juice with apple and hazelnuts
Pumpkin Juice • Pumpkin juice
Smurfesque Cocktail • Pear juice with curaçao
Mesopotamian Nectar • Grape juice with rose and pistachios
Digory’s Secret • Apple and lemon juice with ginger
The Comfort of the White Witch • Hot milk with coﬀee and caramel
Grand Vizier • Spiced soy milk
Genie Elixir • Apple, raspberry, and blueberry mocktail
Magic Potion • Beet, fruit, and carrot juice with honey
Invisibility Potion • Tonic water and citrus fruit mocktail
Friendly Arm Inn Hippocras • Spiced grape juice with honey
Slappy’s Ghostly Punch • Summer berries and orange iced soup149
151
152
153
155
155
157
157
159
160
163
164
165
167
168
169
171
173
173
175
176
176
177Viviane, the Lady of the Lake, lived in the forest of Brocéliande, where she raised Lancelot. 
In the Arthurian legends, Merlin falls in love with her and teaches her all his secrets, including 
the potion for inspiring eternal love. Viviane made the potion and oﬀered it to Merlin and, 
according to some, the two magicians have lived together in the forest, invisible to humans, 
ever since.
infusion time  • 20 mins       resting time  • One night
 When the world was already old and the forests still young, Merlin wandered 
through the forest of Brocéliande, admiring its beauty. It was then that he 
caught sight of Viviane, and became infatuated with her. Wishing to preserve 
Merlin’s love for her, Viviane made up the potion that would keep him by her 
side.
 She began by drawing 2 pints (4 cups) of water from the Crystal lake, 
collecting honey from the forest, and picking lavender ﬂowers, which she 
left to dry throughout the summer under the light of the moon. Finally, she 
obtained the fruit of the faraway lemon tree.
 Viviane heated the water in a cauldron and, as soon as the ﬁrst bubbles 
appeared, she removed it from the heat and threw in the lavender, letting it 
infuse for 20 minutes.
 She strained the liquid through the ﬁnest piece of cheesecloth, then added 
the honey and lemon juice, stirring and softly singing her love for the wizard.
 Sealed in a crystal ﬂask, she let the potion rest in the icy waters of the lake.
 Viviane oﬀered the drink to Merlin and as soon as his lips touched the 
potion, he was captivated by her again. His only desire was to remain with her 
beneath the foliage of the forest, until the end of time.ingredients  • serves 4
1 3/4 oz lavender ﬂowers (from 
organic food stores)
4 1/2 oz honey
3½ ﬂ oz lemon juiceBEWITCHING POTIONS
brocéliande forest
ETERNAL LOVE POTION
149The Ents are giant tree-like beings, able to speak, think, and move. They are the ancient 
guardians and protectors of the forests of Middle-earth. In The Lord of the Rings , 
Merry and Pippin, seeking refuge in Fangorn Forest, meet Treebeard, the eldest of the Ents, 
who provides protection for them at Gandalf ’s request. This explains how, for a time, Merry 
and Pippin live on the mysterious Ent-draught, which makes those who drink it grow taller.
preparation time  • 15 mins       resting time  • 30 mins
cooking time  • 10 mins
 Rinse the harvested fruits, ﬂ  owers, and leaves.
 In a pot made of clay from the Old Forest, bring 2 pints (4 cups) fresh 
spring water to a boil. When the ﬁ  rst bubbles appear, add the berries  and 
cook for 5 minutes until they burst and release their juices.
 Add the ﬂ  owers, leaves, and maple syrup. Mix for another 5 minutes and 
strain the liquid through a strainer (or through the roots of an obliging Ent, 
if one can be found).
 Bottle the Ent-draught and keep in a cool place, in the icy water of a leaping 
stream, for example.ingredients  • serves 4
2 1/4 lb blackberries
1 lb 2 oz blueberries
3 1/2 oz elderberry ﬂ  owers and 
leaves (from organic food stores or 
the health/herbal tea section of the 
supermarket)
3 1/2 oz mallow leaves (from organic 
food stores or the health/herbal tea 
section of the supermarket)
7 oz maple syrupBEWITCHING POTIONS
the lord of the rings
ENT-DRAUGHT
151Gandalf the Grey, later Gandalf the White, is the most famous wizard of Middle-earth. 
Renowned among the hobbits for his spectacular fireworks, he is the companion and 
friend first of Bilbo, then later of Frodo, Bilbo’s nephew (really cousin). Gandalf guides 
the Fellowship of the Ring through the thousand and one perils sent by Sauron to retrieve 
the Ring of Power. Gandalf keeps with him a flask filled with miruvor, an elven cordial 
able to lift the spirits under any circumstances, including climbing the pass of Caradhras.
preparation time  • 20 mins       resting time  • 1 hr
 Gather the fruits at dawn on the summer solstice and rinse them carefully 
with the clear waters of the Bruinen.
 Cut the orange and lemon in half and squeeze to collect their juice.
 Remove the skin and stones of the peaches and pit the cherries, then place 
the fruits in a mortar (or a food processor) with the washed and de-stemmed 
red currants and purée them, before adding orange and lemon juice.
 Strain through a gossamer cloth (or a ﬁ  ne strainer) to obtain a clear liquid.
 Pour into stoppered bottles and keep in the refrigerator, until no later than 
the dawn of the ﬁ  fth day.ingredients  • serves 4
1 orange
1 lemon
1 lb 2 oz yellow peaches
1 lb 2 oz cherries
2 lb 4 oz red currantsBEWITCHING POTIONS
the lord of the rings
GANDALF’S PICK-ME-UP
152On the eve of battle, the bear-men traditionally drink this mixture made of honey from their 
hives and cherries from their woods, which allows them to take the form of a bear. In The 
Hobbit , it is Beorn himself in the guise of a giant black bear who ends the Battle of Five 
Armies by slaying the orc chieftain.
preparation time  • 20 mins       resting time  • 1 hr
cooking time  • 10 mins
 Rinse the cherries on a moonless night, remove their pits, and squeeze 
them through a cloth to collect their juice.
 Heat 1 6 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) water to lukewarm in a saucepan and pour in the 
honey. Stir gently until it melts.
 Add the cherry juice and heat for another 5 minutes, mixing together well.
 Take oﬀ   the heat and cool completely. Pour the beverage into stoppered 
bottles and place in the refrigerator.
 Drink as soon as you hear the orcs approaching in the distance.ingredients  • serves 4
2 lb 4 oz cherries
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) mild honeyBEWITCHING POTIONS
the lord of the rings
BEORNING BEVERAGE
153BEWITCHING POTIONS
harry potter
When Narcissa Malfoy  and Bellatrix Lestrange visit Severus Snape, he swears an Unbreakable 
Vow with Narcissa, after which they drink a toast to the glory of the Dark Lord.
preparation time  • 5 mins        cooking time  • 5 mins
resting time  • 1 hr
 Begin by casting an Iron-shield spell to protect your hands, then, using 
a very sharp knife, cut the peel from the orange. Pull apart the segments, 
remove the white membrane covering them, and cut the ﬂ  esh into segments. 
 Pour all the ingredients into a cauldron, beginning with the blood-colored 
grape juice.
 Add 10 ﬂ   oz (1 1/4 cups) water and boil for 5 minutes. Take the cauldron oﬀ   
the heat and let it rest for 1 hour. Strain and serve scalding hot or icy cold.
Severus Snape was extremely fond of Harry’s mother, Lily Potter. After she died, he is said to 
have often drunk this potion, which is able to preserve memories intact.
preparation time  • 20 mins 
 This potion must be prepared in utter silence, which is impossible for 
dunderheads like you. I do not expect, therefore, that you will remember 
anything but the color of your pillow.
 Rinse the ubull fruit, peel it, cut it, remove the seeds, and stew it with a 
little water in a cauldron on a medium heat. Split the melipone bean in half, 
then, using your wand or the back of a knife, scrape out the inside to collect 
the seeds. Add the seeds to the stewed ubull and mix in.
 Place the phoenix tears in a second cauldron, add the stewed ubull, and 
pour in the juice of lythraceae. Stir three times in the direction of the wheels 
of a Time-Turner, then four times in the opposite direction.
 Let cool, bottle in a ﬂ  ask, and be ready to astound with your elephantine 
memory!ingredients  • serves 4
1 orange
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) grape juice
1 handful blueberries (frozen if out of 
season)
4 T soft brown sugar
1 t ground ginger
1 t ground nutmeg
1 cinnamon stick
1 star anise
ingredients  • One 16 ﬂ   oz 
(2 cup) ﬂ  ask
3 1/2 oz ubull fruit (apple)
1 bean of melipone (vanilla)
A few phoenix tears (2 T maple 
syrup)
14 ﬂ   oz (1 3/4 cups) juice of 
lythraceae (pomegranate)M EMORY POTIONELF-MADE WINE  (alcohol-free)
155Butterbeer was born in 1855 in Great Britain, with the invention of butterscotch. Combined 
with vanilla soda, this syrupy liquid looked so much like beer that it was nicknamed 
“butterbeer.” Fred and George, Ron Weasley’s twin brothers, were the chief suppliers for 
parties in the common room. Let the butterbeer ﬂ  ow like water!
preparation time  • 5 mins         cooking time  • 10 mins  
 Melt the butter in a small cauldron over low heat, add the sugar , and stir 
gently. Cast an Unstick spell or use a damp brush to remove any sugar crystals  
that stick to the sides. Use a Levitation spell and add the molasses or golden 
syrup. Boil for 5 minutes.
 Let the mixture cool completely or cast a Chill spell. Pour 2 tablespoons of 
syrup into each mug, then add some cream soda. Top with a generous dose of 
whipped cream and enjoy. 
Served warm, butterbeer is a cheering drink after trudging through the snow in Hogsmeade or 
for giving you the strength to ﬁ  ght the forces of evil.
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 5 mins
 Follow step 1 of the cold butterbeer recipe (without cooling the syrup).
 Pour in the milk and warm the mixture, stirring gently. Serve in mugs and 
top with whipped cream according to your preference.ingredients  • serves 4
2 1/4 oz butter
2 1/4 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
1 T molasses or golden syrup 
(international foods section of your 
store)
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) cream soda or vanilla 
soda (online or in the international 
foods section)
Whipped cream, to your heart’s 
content
ingredients  • serves 4
2 1/4 oz butter
2 1/4 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
1 T molasses or golden syrup 
(international foods section of your 
store) 
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) milk
Whipped cream, to your heart’s 
contentBEWITCHING POTIONS
harry potter
GENUINE BUTTERBEER  (alcohol-free)
W ARM BUTTERBEER  (alcohol-free)
157BEWITCHING POTIONS
zelda
In the world of Hyrule, this potion allows Link to restore his powers.
preparation time  • 5 mins        resting time  • 15 mins  
 In one of the Secret Caves of Hyrule, known to the Fairies yet unknown to 
the Octoroks, pour the water from a waterfall through a magic ﬂ  ute into a 
cauldron.
 Add the kiwifruit juice given to you by the Minish on your last quest and stir 
gently.
 Pour the cherry syrup into a pitcher, and add the the lemon juice and the  
kiwifruit mixture.
 Add the maraschino cherries and let the potion rest for 15 minutes to restore 
the maximum number of magic points, before decanting into your ﬂ  ask. ingredients  • 2 pt ﬂ  ask (4 
cups)
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) waterfall water
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) kiwifruit juice
4 T cherry syrup
Juice of 1 lemon
1 handful maraschino cherriesGREEN POTION
159A very exclusive cocktail, served by penguin waiters on Derby Day.
preparation time  • 15 mins
 Chip some small chunks of ice from an iceberg. Divide them between 4 
glasses. Divide the cherry syrup, grapefruit juice, peach juice, and vanilla 
extract equally between the glasses.
 Stir gently with Mary Poppins’ umbrella and enjoy while watching the 
carousel horse race.ingredients  • serves 4
4 T cherry syrup
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) grapefruit juice
1 1/2 pt (3 cups) peach juice
2 t vanilla extractBEWITCHING POTIONS
mary poppins
“S UPERCALIFRAGILISTICEXPIALIDOCIOUS” 
ELIXIR
160BEWITCHING POTIONS
sleeping beauty
This will allow you, like the vengeful Maleﬁ  cent, to wake up or put to sleep your inner dragon.
preparation time  • 5 mins
 When the tempest breaks and the storm rises, pour the essence of terror 
into a goblet, watching it shimmer in the ﬂ  ashes of lightning.
 At the second clap of thunder, add your wounded pride and concentrated 
vengeance. Smile your darkest smile and stir with your scepter.
 When gusts of wind start whirling around you, it is time to add the juice of 
the ﬁ  re fruit. Then drink and unleash your terrible wrath.ingredients  • serves 4
Essence of terror
(or 4 T blue curaçao syrup)
wounded pride
(or 16 ﬂ   oz [2 cups] apple juice)
Concentrated vengeance
(or 16 ﬂ   oz/2 cups cranberry juice)
Fire fruit
(or the juice of 1 lemon)DRAGON POTION
163A potion to stay forever beautiful, not to mention devious. Ha! ha! ha!
preparation time  • 15 mins        cooking time  • 10 mins
infusion time  • 15 mins
 Don your favorite and most ﬂ  attering accessories (accursed cape, demonic 
scepter  . . .), roll up your sleeves, then rinse and peel the pastinaca roots and 
slice them into rounds.
 Boil them for 10 minutes in a small cauldron, then strain and reserve the 
liquid (you can give the vegetable slices to your pet raven; it will love them).
 Return the strained liquid to your cauldron and mix in the ubull juice over 
low heat.
 Stir gently with your left hand the number of days in your birthday (three 
times if you were born on the third, and so on).
 Once the mixture is warm, add the hope of a simpering princess and the 
smile of an idiot prince, then sprinkle with the toasted powdered sleeping 
beauties, add the salagama bark, and let it infuse for 15 minutes before 
removing from the heat.
 This potion can be drunk hot, warm, or cold.ingredients  • One 16 ﬂ   oz (2 
cup) ﬂ  ask
Roots of pastinaca
(or 14 ﬂ   oz [1 3/4 cups] carrot juice)
Juice of ubull
(or 3 1/2 ﬂ   oz unpoisoned apple juice)
Powder of sleeping beauties
(or 1 T ground toasted hazelnuts)
Bark of salagama
(or 1 cinnamon stick)BEWITCHING POTIONS
snow white and the seven dwarfs
THE WITCH-QUEEN’S BEAUTY 
POTION
164BEWITCHING POTIONS
halloween
PUMPKIN JUICE
The must-have drink for all sorcerers’ gatherings!
preparation time  • 5 mins
 When the sun throws out its ﬁ  nal rays and the Night of Ghosts and Sorcerers 
begins , put on your ﬁ  nest ceremonial apparel (although in some faraway 
countries, sorcerers make this recipe in their pajamas and slippers) and take 
up your wand.
 Pour the cooked pumpkin into a medium-sized cauldron (note the 
characteristic “plop” of the mashed pumpkin falling into the cauldron), then 
add the apple juice.
 Adjust the glasses on the end of your nose, move the toad and the cat out 
of the way, cast a Muﬄ   ing spell so you don’t draw too much attention to 
yourself, pick up a stick blender, and purée the mixture very thoroughly. 
 Gradually add the apricot jam, blending in well each time. Remove the bits 
of pumpkin from your glasses, hair, table, and carpet.
 Adjust the cinnamon to your taste, decant into a pitcher, and place in the 
refrigerator (keep it out of reach of the toad, an orange batrachian might 
come as a surprise to the neighbors).ingredients  • 1 pitcher
9 oz cooked pumpkin, squash, 
butternut (frozen, if out of season)
2 pt (4 cups) apple juice
4 1/2 oz apricot jam
1 tip cinnamon stick (= 1 pinch)
165BEWITCHING POTIONS
the smurfs
Although sarsaparilla is the Smurfs’ favorite food, when it is out of season these small blue 
people just love to slurp a smurfesque cocktail.
preparation time  • 10 mins
 When the whole village is gathered together and the sun is shining high in 
the sky, slowly smurf* the pear juice into glasses.
 Next, smurf ** the smurﬂ  ing*** water and smurf **** without letting Brainy 
Smurf break your concentration.
 When the mixture ﬁ  zzes, smurf***** the curaçao down the inside of the 
glass: it must reach the very bottom without dissmurﬁ  ng******.
 Then, and only then, smurf ******* the raspberries that you have smurﬂ  y 
saved from Greedy Smurf.
 Stir with a cinnamon stick and sip, smurﬁ  ng gaily.ingredients  • serves 4
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) pear juice
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) soda water
4 T curaçao
1 handful raspberries
4 cinnamon sticksSMURFESQUE COCKTAIL
* pour     ** add     ***soda     **** stir     *****dribble     ****** dissolving     ******* quickly add
167BEWITCHING POTIONS
the bartimaeus trilogy
M ESOPOTAMIAN NECTAR
My dearest Ptolemy, you are my master and the only magician who did not simply rule but 
also sought to truly understand us djinn—including me, Bartimaeus, although I am, it is true, 
especially special. Anyway, as I was saying, one day while enjoying this beverage, Ptolemy 
made me promise to be a little more discreet  and to avoid trouble in the future. . . . I did 
manage it, at least for four days.
preparation time  • 5 mins
 Shell and roughly crush the pistachios. Turn yourself into a dragon and toast 
them with a single breath, or toast in a pan over  medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes.
 Half-ﬁll four glasses with ice cubes.
 Divide the rose syrup between the glasses (only use syrup made from ﬂowers 
from the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, or, if you must, Damask roses: the 
others aren’t worth a pentacle).
 Casually ﬂing a handful of crushed pistachios and pine nuts into each glass 
and pour over the grape juice.
 Yes, I know, it’s excellent. . . . No, no, don’t thank me. . . . Worshipping me 
will be quite enough, no really, I assure you!ingredients  • serves 4
2 3/4 oz unsalted pistachios
Ice cubes
3 T rose syrup
1 T pine nuts
16 ﬂ oz (2 cups) grape juice
168Digory and his friend Polly were the ﬁrst children to visit Narnia and meet the White Witch. It 
happened completely by accident—they were in the attic, innocently drinking ginger beer, but 
who knows what will happen when you are also playing with magic rings.
preparation time  • 5 mins       infusion time  • 15 mins
 Peel the ginger root and cut it into thin slices.
 Pour the apple juice into a cauldron and warm it over medium heat, add the 
pieces of ginger root, turn oﬀ the heat and let it infuse for 15 minutes, and 
then strain and reserve the liquid. 
 Let the strained ginger and apple juice cool completely.
 Divide the crushed ice between the glasses, then add some ginger and apple 
juice to each. Add 4 1/4 ﬂ oz (1/2 cup) water to each glass and a few rounds of 
lemon, and stir using a cinnamon stick.
 Raise a toast to Aslan, empty your glass, and jump into the ring to discover 
the Wood between the Worlds!ingredients  • serves 4
1 ginger root
16 ﬂ oz (2 cups) apple juice
1 T crushed ice
1 lemon, sliced into rounds
4 cinnamon sticksDIGORY’S SECRET (see photo on page 170)BEWITCHING POTIONS
the world of narnia
169After meeting the White Witch of Narnia, Edmund Pevensie is so cold he is unable to speak . 
Jadis gives him this comforting magical beverage and Edmund soon forgets the icy conditions 
that reign in Narnia, where it is always winter yet never Christmas .
preparation time  • 5 mins       cooking time  • 15 mins
 Make the caramel before the cold turns you solid and you become one of 
the statues at the castle of Jadis the White Witch. In a large saucepan, melt the 
brown sugar with 1/3 cup of water and the vinegar over high heat, then bring 
to a boil, constantly stirring with a wooden spoon. As soon as the ﬁ  rst bubbles 
appear, lower the heat. If, like snowﬂ  akes on a window, sugar crystals stick to 
the side of your saucepan, melt them with your damp brush.
 Place your saucepan in the sink and, being very careful of any spatter, pour 
1/3 cup water onto the caramel. Wait until the bubbles calm down and return 
the saucepan to low heat for 1 minute, stirring.
 Let the caramel cool completely before decanting into a crystal ﬂ  ask.
 Place a saucepan over very low heat, mix together the milk, 3 oz of the newly 
made caramel, and the coﬀ  ee, stirring frequently. 
 Pour into cups, top generously with whipped cream, sprinkle with cocoa, 
and serve very hot . Use the remaining homemade caramel to drizzle over each 
drink and decorate.ingredients  • serves 4
1 1/2 pt (3 cups) milk
8 ﬂ   oz (1 cup) decaﬀ  einated coﬀ  ee
1 can whipped cream
4 T unsweetened cocoa powder
The caramel
9 oz light soft brown sugar
½ T white vinegarBEWITCHING POTIONS
the world of narnia
THE COMFORT 
OF THE WHITE WITCH
171Being a villain can go to your head but sometimes Jafar needs to clear his before embarking 
on another round of sinister plots and dark designs. The Grand Vizier is a drink as unique as 
Jafar—its recipe has remained a secret . . . until today.
preparation time  • 10 mins       cooking time  • 5 mins
resting time  • 15 mins
 Bring 2 pints (4 cups) of water to a boil, then add the spices in the following 
order: the chili to clarify your mind, the fennel for coming up with devious 
schemes, the velvety mustard to solidify your ideas, and the turmeric because 
gold is the only color worthy of me!
 Remove from the heat and let the spices infuse for 10 minutes while 
reciting the names on your grudge list. Take a break (it’s a long list). Strain 
the liquid into a pitcher, add the soy milk, taste, season with salt, and put in 
the refrigerator for 15 minutes before serving.
 Well? Unique, don’t you think?ingredients  • serves 4
1 pinch of chili powder
1 t fennel seeds (or 2 herbal teabags)
2 t mustard
1 t turmeric
3 1/2 oz soy milk
SaltGRAND VIZIERBEWITCHING POTIONS
aladdin
GENIE ELIXIR
A drink to make you ﬁ  t to face a rage-ﬁ  lled Vizier while tap dancing and tickling the ears of 
the Sultan!
preparation time  • 5 mins
 When confronted with a powerful enemy, try this elixir ﬁ  x. Divide the 
blueberry jelly between 4 glasses. Pour the raspberry juice, apple juice, and 
lemon juice into a pitcher and stir.
 Divide the fruit juice between the glasses and arm yourself with this elixir 
when Jafar is about to explode with wrath. He may be a wizard, but he had 
better hold tight onto to his curly-toed slippers!ingredients  • serves 4
4 T blueberry jelly
10 ﬂ   oz (1 1/4 cups) raspberry juice
16 ﬂ   oz (2 cups) apple juice
Juice of 1 lemon
173BEWITCHING POTIONS
asterix and obelix
Perhaps the most famous potion of them all! A classic, producing many diﬀ  erent magical 
eﬀ  ects, including giving the drinker superhuman strength, lending speech to the the voiceless, 
and reviving the unconscious. It even makes daisies bloom more quickly! But be careful not to 
fall into a cauldron full of it!
preparation time  • 10 mins        resting time  • 5 mins
 A warning from Obelix: “Getaﬁ  x wants me to tell you to make absolutely 
sure no one falls into the cauldron of potion, blah blah blah . . .”
 Heat the blueberry juice and 1/3 cup water in a small cauldron sheltered from 
the wind, and, if possible, under an oak tree at least one hundred years old 
and home to a family of chickadees (their birdsong is ideal for concentration). 
Next, blend the baking soda and sugar into the liquid in the cauldron.
 When the mixture is the color of a moonless night (very dark blue), add all 
the lemon juice at once and mix enthusiastically. Your potion should start 
to bubble up; and if its color goes from dark blue to ruby red, you will have 
earned your druid’s sickle!
 Next, add the carrot juice drop by drop, stirring as you go, the strawberry 
juice all at once, and the beet juice half a spoonful at a time; stir gently. Taste, 
and add as much honey as you please.
 Now you are ready for a new adventure!
 Druid tip: “If it be not the season of the blueberry, the same quantity of the 
juice of the black currant will suﬃ   ce.”ingredients  • serves 4
7 ﬂ   oz blueberry juice
1 T baking soda
2 3/4 oz superﬁ  ne sugar
Juice of 4 lemons
1 T juice from freshly picked carrots
5 ﬂ   oz (2/3 cup) strawberry juice
1 T beet juice
Honey to tasteM AGIC POTION
175Allowing you, as its name suggests, to become invisible, this potion is very useful for hiding 
from adversaries in battle, listening at doors, or stealing a magical item. Be careful though, 
only your body is invisible, not your shadow.
preparation time  • 2 mins       resting time  • 10 mins
 Juice the fruit s without losing a drop, or someone might suspect what you 
are up to. Blend the syrup of trompe l’oeil with the juices of Intentions  and 
Irony, then add the Fizzing Spirit of Troll. Rinse the leaves of Discretion and 
add to the potion. Let it infuse for 10 minutes, then strain into a bottle.
 If you venture into caves illuminated by ultraviolet light, keep in mind that 
your potion will become phosphorescent and thus be able to light your way, 
but also betray your presence . . .
There’s nothing like a good tankard of hippocras to restore the spirits after taking on 
obstreperous giants, ill-tempered magicians, zombies, ghouls, and other nefarious shadows.
preparation time  • 5 mins       resting time  • 3 hrs
 Peel and grate the ginger root. Pound together the cardamom pods and 
cloves, add the ground cinnamon, and mix with the ginger. Warm the grape 
juice in a small cauldron over low heat, blend in the honey, then add the 
spices.
 Turn oﬀ the heat and let infuse for the time it takes to undo the Confusion 
spell you accidentally cast over the mage’s wyvern near the door . Let 2 to 3 
hours pass.
 Strain the hippocras into a pitcher and oﬀer to buy everyone a round of 
drinks so no one notices your friends escape via the secret passage under the 
counter.ingredients  • 2 pt (4 cup) 
bottle
2 Fruits of Intention (or 2 limes)
1 pt (2 cups) Juice of Irony 
(or yellow grapefruit juice)
6 T Syrup of Trompe-l’œil 
(or cane sugar syrup)
1 pt (2 cups) Fizzing Spirit of Troll  
(or tonic water)
1 Hint of Discretion 
(or a sprig of mint)
ingredients  • serves 4 
2 1/4 oz fresh ginger root
10 cardamom pods
10 cloves
1 oz ground cinnamon
2 pt (4 cups) red grape juice
6 t dark honey (chestnut or ﬁr)BEWITCHING POTIONS
dungeons & dragons
INVISIBILITY POTION
FRIENDLY ARM INN 
HIPPOCRAS
176When Slappy the Dummy releases the monsters from the various Goosebumps  books, he 
thinks victory will be easy. He doesn’t count on the author and his friends, who soon manage 
to reduce The Blob that Ate Everyone to mush, trapping bits of zombie along the way.
preparation time  • 5 mins       freezing time  • 3 hrs
 Heat 2 pints (4 cups) water in a small cauldron, without letting it come to 
a boil, then dissolve the sheets of gelatin in it. Rinse a pair of latex gloves, 
making sure to remove all traces of talcum powder.
 When the gelatin has dissolved, completely ﬁll the latex gloves with this 
water , tie a knot at the wrist, making it tight so the water can’t escape, and 
place the gloves in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours.
 Squeeze the oranges, and mix the juice with the raspberry and strawberry 
juices in a clear crystal bowl.
 Spread the blackberry jelly in small bowls or one large bowl, pour the juice 
down the sides of the bowl, followed by the honey.
 Take the gloves out of the refrigerator, cut the latex at the knot and carefully 
unmold the ice. Place the frozen hands in the bowl, crush the mint between 
your ﬁngers, throw it around the frozen hands, and serve.ingredients  • serves 8
4 sheets gelatin
4 oranges
2 pt (4 cups) raspberry juice
2 pt (4 cups) strawberry juice
4 T blackberry jelly
4 T honey
2 sprigs mintSLAPPY’S GHOSTLY PUNCHBEWITCHING POTIONS
goosebumps
177INDEX
Apple and lemon juice with ginger • Digory’s Secret
Apple and pomegranate juice with vanilla • Memory Potion
Apple, raspberry, and blueberry mocktail • Genie Elixir
Apples stuﬀed with York ham • Vice Versa Apples
Asian beef dumplings • The Ancient One’s Tibetan Momo 
Bacon and egg toast • Cair Paravel Eggs
Beet, fruit, and carrot juice with honey • Magic Potion
Beet pops with goat cheese • Tabitha’s Lollipops
Berry syrup • Ent-Draught
Black Forest-style shortbread desserts • Werewolf Biscuits
Boar ﬁllets with honey and mustard • Carnutes Boar
Braised chicken with cherries • Chicken with Cherries from the Cold Lands
Buckwheat shortbread with sesame • Alakazam Cookies
Candy apples • Poisoned Apples
Carrot juice with apple and hazelnuts • The Witch-Queen’s Beauty Potion
Carrot squares with spices • Morsels from the Cave of Wonders
Cheesecake with honey • Circe’s Charm
Cherry and kiwifruit mocktail • Green Potion
Cherry syrup • Beorning Beverage
Chestnut ﬂour shortbread • Magica De Spell’s Lucky Dimes
Chicken and red lentil soup • Babylonian Pottage
Chicken with blue spaghetti • Molecularized Smurf Spaghetti
Clam and bacon chowder • Dawn Treader Soup 
Cocktail sandwiches with homemade sardine pâté • Sardine Sandwiches
Cookies with dried fruit and nuts • Elven Waybread (Lembas) 
Corn bread • Scarecrow Bread
Crab cakes • Duﬄepud Island Croquettes
Cranberry tart • Sword Coast Tart
Cucumber and mint sandwiches • Cucumber Sandwiches
Curaçao, apple, and cranberry syrup • Dragon Potion
Date and sesame balls • Djinn Desserts
Falafel skewers • Brochettes of Finely Chopped Enemy
Fall fruit juice with spices • Elf-Made Wine (alcohol-free)
Frog-shaped chocolates • Chocolate Frogs
Fruit gelatin mold •  Witches’ Council Jello Ring
Fruit parfait with meringue and whipped cream • Titania’s Delight
Garlic, bacon, and cheese tart • Garlic Tart
Gazelle horn-style cookies • Delights of the Lamp
Goat cheese toast with honey and herbs • Beorn’s Goat Cheese Toast
Grape juice with rose and pistachios • Mesopotamian Nectar
Ham and pineapple canapés • Canapés Endora
Hard-boiled eggs in potato nests • Dragon Eggs
Homemade strawberry ice cream • Strawberry Ice Cream
Hot butterscotch milk • Warm Butterbeer (alcohol-free)
Hot milk with coﬀee and caramel • The Comfort of the White Witch
Japanese shrimp and vegetable fritters • Nagrand Tempura169
155
173
70
58
25
175
65
151
117
93
53
138
107
164
21
135
159
153
129
36
84
39
81
123
54
77
145
34
163
120
20
155
121
137
140
91
126
31
168
67
87
112
157
171
48Lamb chops with peas • The Beast’s Chops
Lavender and honey syrup • Eternal Love Potion
Macaroni and cheese • Magical Gratin
Meat-ﬁlled pita pockets • Kebab of 3,000 Years Ago
Meat pies • Little Steak and Kidney Pies
Ostrich parcels with purple potato mash • Hippogriﬀ en Papillote
Pastry cones ﬁlled with savory mousse • Swamp Blob
Peach, grapefruit, and cherry drink • “Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious” Elixir
Pear juice with curaçao • Smurfesque Cocktail
Porcini tartlets • Beauty’s Tartlets
Pumpkin candies • Patapumpkins
Pumpkin cookie pops • Nathaniel’s Reminders
Pumpkin juice • Pumpkin Juice
Pumpkin soup with nutmeg • Pumpkin Soup
Raspberry madeleines • Raspberry Cakes
Roast lamb with spices • Red Dragon Inn Roast Lamb
Roast pork with heirloom vegetables • Roast Pork with Nelwyn Vegetables
Roast veal in pastry • Children en Croûte
Rosewater Turkish delight • The White Witch’s Turkish Delight
Shortbread with honey and hazelnuts • Jafar’s Jewels
Shortbread with raspberries and white chocolate cream • The Eye of Agamotto
Souﬄé omelet • Souﬄé Omelet Saruman
Soup made from heirloom vegetable peelings • Peelings Soup
Spaghetti with fresh mussels • Pasta from the Lair of Magica De Spell
Spice bread toast with goat cheese and apricot • Dorothy’s Toast
Spiced beef jerky •  Raﬁki’s Chips
Spiced grape juice with honey • Friendly Arm Inn Hippocras
Spiced soy milk • Grand Vizier
Spicy coconut milk soup • Red Dragon Inn Fiery Broth
Spicy turkey tacos • Shadowy Creature
Spinach phyllo ﬁngers • Souk Cigars
Stuﬀed mushroom hors d’oeuvres • Newt Scamander’s Sasquatch Bait
Summer berries and orange iced soup • Slappy’s Ghostly Punch
Summer fruit juice • Gandalf ’s Pick-Me-Up
Tart with prunes • Fairy Melusine’s Pastry 
Toast with sweet omelet and fruit compote • Toast for Disobedient Children
Tomato and mozzarella lollipops • Bewitching Scepters
Tomato gelatin squares with popping sugar • Scourer Repellents
Tonic water and citrus fruit mocktail • Invisibility Potion
Treacle tart • Treacle Tart
Vanilla butterscotch ﬂoat (cold) • Genuine Butterbeer (alcohol-free)
Watercress and mushroom salad • Radagast’s Salad
Watercress soup • Soup with the Gaze of Lord Voldemort’s Basilisk
Whiting ceviche with coconut milk • Ramandu’s Island Salad
Zucchini soup with tapioca • Witches’ Soup101
149
42
33
75
73
83
160
167
99
133
119
165
23
111
89
95
78
143
125
105
27
41
51
57
63
176
173
47
96
19
64
177
152
130
109
69
113
176
115
157
29
76
26
45
Find all the sorcerers’ worlds and their corresponding recipes in My Who’s 
Who of Sorcerers on page 8.BIBLIOGRAPHY
GENERAL
• LOISEAU, Bernard, GILBERT, Gérard, Trucs, astuces et tours de main , Hachette, 1996.
• BOTTÉRO, Jean, La plus vieille cuisine du monde , Éditions Louis Audibert, 2002.
• MATHIOT, Ginette, Merveilles de la cuisine internationale et exotique , Flammarion, 1967.
• MASSIALOT, François, Le cuisinier roïal et bourgeois , Chez Claude Prudhomm,1691.
Available here: http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/bpt6k108571q
SORCERERS IN PRINT
• COLLECTIF, 50 contes et histoires enchantées , Compagnie Internationale du Livre, 1980.
• PERRAULT, Charles, Contes , Hachette, collection Grandes Oeuvres, 1978.
• ANDERSEN, Hans Christian, The Little Mermaid & Other Stories , Hachette, collection Grandes Oeuvres, 1992.
• GRIMM, Jacob, GRIMM, Wilhelm, Grimm’s Fairy Tales , Auzou, 2011.
• LEPRINCE DE BEAUMONT, Jeanne-Marie, D’AULNOY, Marie-Catherine,
 La Belle et la Bête et autres contes , Le Livre de Poche Jeunesse, 1979. 
• CAMIGLIERI, Laurence, Contes et Légendes du Poitou et des Charentes , 
coll. Contes et Légendes de tous les pays, Fernand Nathan, 1977.
• COLLECTIF, Contes et Légendes de Brocéliande , Terre de Brume, 2000.
• SHAKESPEARE, William, A Midsummer Night’s Dream , Le Livre de Poche, 1983.
• DAHL, Roald, The Witches , Gallimard, collection 1000 Soleils, 1984.
• BAUM, L. Frank, The Wizard of Oz , J’ai Lu, 1993.
• TRAVERS, P. L., Mary Poppins , Hachette, collection jeunesse, 1980.
• ROWLING, J. K., Fantastic Beasts & Where to Find Them,  Gallimard Jeunesse, 2001.
• BARKS, Carl, Les Trésors de Picsou , Disney Hachette Presse, 2006–2014.
• STINE, R. L., Goosebumps   series, Bayard Poche, collection Passion de Lire, 1998–2001.
• CLARKE, GILSON, François, Melusine series,  Dupuis, 1995–2016.
• GOSCINNY, René, UDERZO, Albert, FERRI, Jean-Yves, Asterix series, 
Dargaud, Albert & René, Hachette, 1959–2016.
• PEYO, Les Schtroumpfs series, Dupuis puis Le Lombard, 1963–2016.
• BRAND, Christianna, Nurse Matilda , Knight, 1975.
• TEZUKA, Osamu, Le Roi Léo , Glénat Manga, 1996.
THE LORD OF THE RINGS
• TOLKIEN, J. R. R., The Hobbit , Le Livre de Poche, 1980.
• TOLKIEN, J. R. R., The Lord of the Rings , Volume 1: The Fellowship of the Ring, Presse Pocket, 1986.
• TOLKIEN, J. R. R., The Lord of the Rings , Volume 2: The Two Towers, Presse Pocket, 1991.
• TOLKIEN, J. R. R., The Lord of the Rings , Volume 3: The Return of the King, Presse Pocket, 1991.
THE BARTIMAEUS TRILOGY
• STROUD, Jonathan, Volume 1: The Amulet of Samarkand , Livre de Poche Jeunesse, 2010.
• STROUD, Jonathan, Volume 2: The Golem’s Eye , Livre de Poche Jeunesse, 2008.
• STROUD, Jonathan, Volume 3: Ptolemy’s Gate , Livre de Poche Jeunesse, 2011.
• STROUD, Jonathan, Prequel to the trilogy: The Ring of Solomon , Livre de Poche Jeunesse, 2013.
LES PARIS DES MERVEILLES SERIES
• PEVEL, Pierre, Les Enchantements d'Ambremer , Bragelonne, 2015.
• PEVEL, Pierre, L’Élixir d’Oubli , Bragelonne, 2015.
• PEVEL, Pierre, Le Royaume Immobile , Bragelonne, 2015.
HARRY POTTER
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone , Gallimard, 1999.
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets , Gallimard, 1999.
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban , Gallimard, 1999.
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire , Gallimard, 2000.
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix , Gallimard, 2003.
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince , Gallimard, 2005.
• ROWLING, J. K., Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows , Gallimard, 2007.
THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA
• LEWIS, C. S., The Magician’s Nephew , coll. Folio Junior, Gallimard Jeunesse, 2001.
• LEWIS, C.S., The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe , coll. Bibliothèque du Chat Perché, Flammarion, 1980.
• LEWIS, C. S., Prince Caspian: The Return to Narnia , coll.Castor Poche, Flammarion, 1993.
• LEWIS, C. S., The Horse and His Boy , coll. Folio Junior, Gallimard Jeunesse, 2001.
• LEWIS, C. S., The Voyage of the Dawn Treader , coll. Bibliothèque du Chat Perché, Flammarion, 1983.
• LEWIS, C. S., The Silver Chair , coll. Bibliothèque du Chat Perché, Flammarion, 1984.
• LEWIS, C. S., The Last Battle , coll. Folio Junior, Gallimard Jeunesse, 2002.
SORCERERS ON THE SMALL AND LARGE SCREEN
• The Sword in the Stone , Wolfgang Reitherman, Disney Studios, 1963.
• Willow , Ron Howard; Imagine Entertainment, Lucasﬁlm, Metro-Goldym-Mayer, 1988.
• The Lion King , Rob Minkoﬀ, Roger Allers, Disney Studios, 1994.
• Nanny McPhee , Kirk Jones, Universal Pictures, 2006.
• Goosebumps , Rob Letterman, Columbia Pictures, 2015.
• Doctor Strange , Scott Derrickson, Marvel Studios, 2016.
• Fantastic Beasts  and Where to Find Them,  David Yates, Warner Bros, 2016.
• Warcraft , Duncan Jones, Legendary Pictures, Universal Pictures, 2016.
• Bewitched , Wiliam Asher for ABC, 1964–1972.
• Ulysses 31 , Jean Chalopin, Nina Wolmark; DIC, Tokyo Movie Shinsha, 1981–1982.
• Kaamelott , Alexandre Astier, François Guérin, Calt, 2004–2009.
GAMES
• Dungeons & Dragons , Tactical Studies Rules and Wizards of the Coast, 1974–2016.
• The Legend of Zelda , Nintendo, 1986–2016.
• World of Warcraft , Blizzard Entertainment, 1994–2016.
• Baldur’s Gate , Tales of the Sword Coast, Icewind Dale, BioWare and Black Isle Studios, 1998–2012.Alexia would like to thank everyone who helped in styling the images:
• Marion Dupuis the witch for her precious assistance 
and Smurf-like technical skills. A thousand thank yous!
• Romain the young Padawan.
And the following people for lending props, 
each more bizarre than the last: 
• Julien and Eugénie the forest wizards .
• TEO LEO Gallery (www.teoleo-galerie.com) .
And, ﬁnally , thank you to Marjorie, Corinne, and Didier for their trust.