/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersFoods can be enjoyed two ways: cooked all together on a stove top or tableside in a 
hot pot, or in the Chinese-style hot-pot method of cooking for yourself. Here, each guest cooks their choice of foods in the pot or in a ladle, then the items are scooped into their bowl and dipped into a sauce to eat. With that setting, you can imagine the endless combinations, from the flavors in the broth to the ingredients you’re cooking and the sauces you dip them in.
Hot pots are referred to by many names, such as Mongolian hot pots, fire pots, 
steamboats, shabu-shabu (in Japan and Taiwan), sin-sul-lo (in Korea), and sukiyaki (in Japan and Laos), to name a few. It is very similar to Western fondue, except the base is a broth and the ingredients used are different. As foods are mostly cooked in their natural state, whether fresh or frozen, it comes down to the flavors and seasonings in the broth. That infusion is what gives the food its delicious taste, which changes up with every different broth. Hot pot is very different from soup, as it’s heartier, but still less dense than stew. The best part is how interactive it is—cooking and eating out of a shared vessel with family and friends creates an experience of togetherness.
History and Origins
Steeped in 1,900 years of history, hot pot is profound in Chinese food culture both past and present. The discovery of bronze pots from the Western Han dynasty in ancient China led scholars to believe they were the equivalent of today’s hot pot. Scenes of people enjoying hot pot were recorded in stone relief during that period, supporting that hot pot originated at least then. According to archaeological research, wild game such as deer, boar, pheasants, turtles, and even bear and tigers were commonly eaten. The Han people were already cooking with seasonings such as Sichuan pepper, ginger, and scallions. However, it is said that the Mongolians were the ones who popularized this cooking method about 900 years ago.
Legend has it that Genghis Khan’s cook had to quickly feed the troops before a 
battle. Sitting and eating over an open fire, Mongolian warriors and horsemen used their helmets as bowls to simmer the broth with chunks of horse meat and mutton. Subsequently, hot pot spread throughout China where distinct regional variations /three.lf Hot Pot at Homedeveloped. This practical and effortless cooking style was embraced by both com-
moners and royals. There was no social prestige involved. The rich might have used higher-quality meat and a greater variety of produce, but the manner of eating from the hot pot was the same. Hot pot’s influence made its way into Japan in 1338, known as nabemono, and the rest of Asia has since welcomed it in a myriad of forms.
Hot Pot Today
Across Asia, the hot-pot culture is all about community, whether in restaurants or private homes. Most notable is China’s Chongqing region in the interior west, known as the hot-pot capital of the world, where it is said one in five restaurants serves hot pot, mainly in their ubiquitous famous style of tongue-numbing spicy ma la. Hot pot is not just food or fuel, but a lifestyle for locals. Asian countries beyond China—to the east, Korea and Japan, and to the southeast, Thailand and Cambodia—have adopted this form of cooking, and each has their own unique broths and ingredients. Still the universal setting is the same, bringing family and friends together in a social manner, chatting and bonding while cooking and eating to their hearts’ content, often enjoyed with alcohol. That flourishing tradition of community and connection is embodied in the spirit of hot pot.
Regional Differences
A single country can serve varying styles of hot pots depending on what is grown in and available to the different regions. Of the countless types in China, the north-ern parts (near Beijing) are known for fresh, quality mutton and have less of a broth focus. Toward the south, seafood and vegetables in a lighter broth are characteristic of Cantonese cuisine. In southeastern countries, fragrant lemongrass, lime leaves, and chiles offer tangy, citrusy, and spicy notes that are standard in their broths.
In this book, the diversity of broth and ingredient combinations is well repre-
sented in hot-pot styles of China (including Mongolia), Korea, Japan, and Taiwan in the east and Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, the Philippines, and Malaysia in /four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for Beginnersthe southeast. I encourage you to kick back and relax with the Chinese hot-pot style 
of cooking a little food and eating slowly at the table. Take in the setting around you, the sights, aromas, tastes, and conversations that can be had only with a slow and gradual-paced meal.
HOW TO HAVE HOT POT AT HOME
Before you begin cooking, you will need some basic equipment. Many are things you probably already have, such as ladles, eating utensils, bowls, and dishes. The main item to consider is the hot pot out of which you will be cooking. With the many options available, the investment is small, and choosing the right one can give you joyful hot-pot memories for years to come.
Everything you need to know about creating hot pot will be covered in chapter 2. 
These three key components include the base broth, the ingredients to add and cook in broth and for how long, as well as the sauces used to dip the foods in.
Choosing a Hot Pot
You may already own something that can work, but if not, it’s very inexpensive to get started. My go-to is simply a large two-handled 5-quart stainless steel pot with a glass lid over a portable gas burner. At extended family gatherings we usually cook in two electric skillets set at each end of the table, so everyone can have access. For any hot pots or heating equipment with a short plug, you will need an extension cord to keep it out of harm’s way. I will outline the most accessible options with tableside dining as the focus and their approximate price range. If you need to buy one, keep in mind the ideal height and diameter of the pot: 3 /one.num⁄/two.denom to 5 inches deep and at least 12 inches across would feed four to six adults.
Check out your local department stores, kitchenware stores, or Asian houseware 
stores. Amazon carries an extensive selection, and you can browse models according to customer recommendation reviews. Simply search with “hot pot” as the keyword to see a number of options./five.lf Hot Pot at HomeHow your hot pot reacts to heat is an important factor in selecting the right one 
for you. Cooking tableside, you are looking at induction or electric hot plates or a por-
table gas burner that uses butane cartridges. Induction heat reduces wasted energy, as 90 percent of the energy goes toward the plate’s core function and it cooks faster and evenly. The surface does not get hot, so it’s not only safer, but spilled food will not get baked onto the cooktop. However, induction heat will only work with cookware made of magnetic steel such as cast iron or stainless steel. Electric hot plates take longer to heat up and the heat distributes unevenly, but they can be used with all cookware and are less expensive. The average price of a single induction plate runs $40 to $50, whereas an electric plate is around $20 to $40.Healthy Hot Pots
Hot pot is the ultimate healthy comfort food. From the vast array of broth bases 
and wide assortment of ingredients such as lean proteins, vegetables, noodles, and dumplings, there’s something for everyone! Poaching delicately in a hot broth preserves the ingredients’ natural flavors and imparts flavor into the broth, which gradually becomes more tasty and robust as you cook. Thus, a sip of the delectable brew toward the end is the perfect finish to a satisfying and nourishing meal.
The most basic broth can be made just by cooking chicken bones in water. We 
all know what wonders homemade chicken soup can do for us. Just a few slices of ginger gives you its benefit as a digestive aid and cold preventer, not to mention flavor. In addition, many hot-pot styles use Chinese medicinal herbs and ingredi-ents to prevent ailments and give you energy, especially during colder months when our immune system needs a boost. For example, dried Chinese red dates (also called jujubes) maintain blood flow and detoxify the liver, goji berries (also called wolf berries) are high in antioxidants and help promote sleep and energy, and the small root of the ginseng is prized for its rejuvenating properties and source of vital-ity. The bottom line: no matter how you prepare it, hot pot is one of the most natural forms of healthy cooking./six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersA gas-powered hot pot or portable gas burner is the most practical heating device. 
Affordable and conveniently cordless, it offers good control of the flame with a tem-
perature dial. Butane cartridges are purchased separately. One will last you two to three hot-pot sessions. A gas burner can be used with all kinds of pots. I picked up the one I have in a Korean store, and it comes with a compact case for easy storage. ($25 to $40)
Clay pots (donabe) are a traditional Japanese clay earthenware designed with a 
rounded bottom and a domed lid with a little hole for steam to escape. The heat is conducted in a gradual, even way, and it works best over an open flame. You can also use other stoneware, ceramic, or Chinese sand pots. To avoid uneven heat distri-bution, clay pots should not be used on electric hot plates. (Basic 8-inch donabe: $45 to $60)
Cast-iron casseroles or Dutch ovens are great alternatives, as they distribute heat 
efficiently just like donabe and are sturdy. Although they get hot quickly, the downside 
is that they don’t retain the heat for long. You can’t see how the cooking is going and there’s no hole in the lid, but you can let steam escape by inserting a fork between the lid and pot. Stainless steel pots get hot at the point of heat contact but are not nearly as good at circulating the heat. This is what I have been using all along, and it works out fine. (6-quart Dutch oven: $60 to $75)
An electric hot pot has a deep dish that fits into a pot, an adjustable temperature 
control, and a glass lid to see the food cooking. Designed for safe hot potting, some models have a detachable magnetic cord and handles that stay cool when you take the dish out. (12-inch diameter: $60)
An electric skillet is a wide shallow vessel that can be round or square. The tempera-
ture is controlled by a dial. It’s fairly inexpensive, convenient to use, and six to eight people can easily cook around it. (12-inch with glass lid: $35 to $50)
Fondue pots that are more modern can work like a fondue burner with a small 
butane tank or an alcohol burner that adjusts flame and heat capacity. The most convenient would be an electric fondue pot that comes with a base, bowl, and a /seven.lftemperature knob. If you have one of these already, use it. If not, consider looking at 
the more suitable options listed here.
I don’t recommend cooking with an Instant Pot for hot pot. The tall height of the 
pot is not convenient to diners, and the heavy lid is cumbersome. Same goes for a slow cooker, as you cannot achieve a boil even when it is set at maximum heat.
Should I Get a Split Pot?
A split pot is a shallow 4-inch-deep hot pot, usually aluminum, with a divider down the middle. These are commonly used for offering two broths simultaneously, a spicy broth in one and non-spicy in the other. They are inexpensive, and recommended if you love changing up the tastes or if family and guests prefer one broth over the other, such as meatless on one side. (12-inch with glass lid: $25 to $40)
Essential Utensils and Dishes
Slotted spoons or spiders: An essential tool to filter out the soup and take out ingre-dients conveniently, without fishing for them with personal chopsticks. A regular-size slotted spoon or spider would do the common job of scooping out food for everyone.
Other Uses for Your Hot Pot
Cast-iron casseroles, Dutch ovens, stone pots, or donabe are great for long slow 
cooking over the stove such as chilis and stews or braises in the oven. They can also be used for baking bread. Electric hot pots and skillets are versatile for sautéing, stir-frying, and steaming. Some models feature a removable grill or barbecue plate and a steaming rack. Something to think about if you want a multifunctional device that can do more than serve hot-pot meals.
Hot Pot at Home/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersLadles or hot-pot strainer scoops: Individual metal sieve ladles are convenient to 
keep food in one place or control cooking times with the diner in charge. They are also convenient for scooping out cooked foods.
Chopsticks: Chopsticks are Asia’s cutlery and may take a bit of time to master. 
Wooden ones are light and easy on the fingers. A regular pair is needed for each diner with separate long chopsticks, if using, to remove cooked foods from the pot.
Bowls: A shallow 5- to 6-inch bowl is perfect for eating meals in rounds and for soup. 
Enamel is best to retain heat.
Plates or platters: Serve your assorted food selection on several plates or platters. 
Any shapes work and should be about 10 inches or larger to contain ample food. I like using enamel plates for raw meats and seafood and plastic platters for mounds of leafy vegetables for some presentation contrast. Leave out an empty plate to place cooked foods that have not been claimed by diners.
Tongs: Tongs are useful for lifting larger amounts of food into the broth such as leafy 
vegetables and noodles.Setting the Table
For tableside cooking, the heated hot pot is placed in the center for all diners to 
have access. Plates of ingredients with raw meat and vegetables are served sepa-rately around the hot pot. Foods can be evenly divided for better reach, especially when entertaining a crowd.
Each table setting should have a shallow bowl for cooked foods and a small 
serving bowl for sauce. Utensils for each person include a small sieve or scoop ladle and a pair of chopsticks. Shared chopsticks or tongs should be offered alongside the plates for picking up the uncooked foods. Have a soup ladle and soup spoons ready to serve the flavorful broth./nine.lf Hot Pot at HomeCOOKING AND ETIQUETTE
Sharing a pot with your fellow diners is an intimate experience. Depending how close 
you are, the approach could be more freestyle, with several ingredients tossed in to cook and everyone taking out what they wish, or diners can cook their own in individ-ual ladles. With my family and friends, I often combine both styles, with diners filling their own separate ladles of foods (often meat that cooks quickly) and larger items like leafy vegetables and longer-cooking items like frozen dumplings or meatballs cooked together in the pot. It is hygienic and respectful to everyone at the table not to use the eating chopsticks to pick out food. Use your ladle or designated serving chopsticks for this. It is customary to place your eating chopsticks across your bowl when you are finished.
Cooking While Eating or Before Serving
In parts of Asia, such as Korea and Japan, the customary way to eat hot pot is to put a bunch of ingredients in broth, let them come to a boil, and leave simmering while food is ladled out to eat. It is mainly in China and Taiwan where ladles are regularly used for diners to cook themselves. This style is also enjoyed in many Southeast Asian countries. Congregating, leisurely grazing, and socializing over hot pot is what it’s about. These methods favor a slow-paced enjoyment of cooking gradually and eating together.
A common etiquette across Asian cultures is that we wait for the elder at the 
table to begin eating to commence the meal. Cultural etiquette nuances are inter-esting to note. In Japan, the person who sits nearest to the hot pot should put in the ingredients and observe cooking times. To show appreciation for the meal, it is customary to noisily slurp your noodles and soup. In Korea, however, it is the oppo-site. Lifting your bowl to eat or drink soup is considered impolite. Both chopsticks and a spoon are necessary utensils for each diner. While noodles are served with most Asian hot-pot meals, an accompanying bowl of steamed rice is a must in Japan and Vietnam./one.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersThe important communal aspect draws on the simple symbolism of “roundness.” 
In Chinese and Taiwanese culture, the “yuan” circle means reunion and unity and is 
greatly presented in the hot-pot setting. When eating hot pot, a round pot is cen-tered at the table with lots of food and everyone around it, and often that table is round as well. In addition, the burning fire and upward steam symbolizes flourish-ing life. Therefore, hot pot is a common tradition at Chinese New Year’s Eve family reunion dinners with plentiful dishes and a crowded table to celebrate abundance and prosperity.
Keep the Meat and Veggies Separate
Meats and vegetables should always be kept separate to avoid salmonella and cross contamination. It is a good idea to serve raw meat and seafood on small plates and refill as you run out, with extras already prepared in the refrigerator, as it is important to keep raw foods safe throughout the meal.
Everything Has a Cook Time
Whether you are cooking foods all together before serving or cooking as you eat, always prepare it with the ingredients’ cook time in mind. Cooking at once involves layering the foods in the broth according to what takes longer to cook first. For exam-ple, with frozen dumplings or fish balls, put these in with a cook time of five minutes in the simmering broth. Three minutes in, you may want to add kabocha squash and carrots that take two minutes to cook; then shrimp, tofu, and watercress bunches at one to two minutes, and leafy vegetables and thinly sliced meat around the 1-minute to 30-second mark. Then all your ingredients are cooked together and taken out in one shot. Just don’t overcrowd your pot and be sure to keep the broth at a simmer. At some points, you may want to cover the pot to return the broth to a boil. This is where a see-through lid comes in handy. A good rule of thumb is when in doubt, whether it’s cooked or not, you can let it simmer a little longer./one.lf/one.lf Hot Pot at HomeFor cooking, after the initial boil, you’ll want the heat turned down to medium so 
that your hot pot simmers. It is necessary to have extra broth on hand or a kettle of 
hot water to replenish the broth. Since the broth is getting more concentrated as you’re cooking, plain water is usually fine without diluting flavors too much. You will read about the categories of ingredients and their specific cook times in chapter 2.
What to Do with Leftovers
One of the great joys of hot pot is the sight of heaping platters of foods. The plentiful presentation catches our attention as plates are brought out to the table one after another, opening up our appetite. In the likelihood that leftovers remain, the broth and both cooked and uncooked ingredients can be eaten the next day.
My favorite way to serve leftovers is to turn them into a pot of noodle soup. I add 
water to top up the broth, bring it to a boil, adjust the seasonings, add raw ingredi-ents according to their cook times, and during the last minute or so add any leftover cooked foods to heat through along with prepared noodles. Alternatively, you can cook the ingredients in the broth and serve them with a side bowl of steamed rice. The meat and vegetables are great in a stir-fry with a bit of chopped garlic and soy sauce to season.
Keep It Fun!
Encourage your diners to try a little of everything and to sip the delicious broth at the end of the meal! Raise your glass for a quick toast, and cook, dip, and eat to your hearts’ content. Hot pot doesn’t have to be a serious affair. Enjoy the fun!RECIPE TITLE, PAGE 00FPO
/one.lf/three.lfCHAPTER TWO
Everything You Need 
to Enjoy Hot Pot
Hot-pot assembly is about balancing flavors and textures with 
ingredients that bestow nutrition, contrast, and harmony. Learn about the wide array of hot-pot staples and ingredient favorites, including where to buy and alternatives if you can’t find them or get to an Asian grocery store. Explore what is involved in making your own broth, popular condiments to create your own dipping sauces, and of course the multitude of common and interesting ingredients to enjoy hot pot.
WHERE AND HOW TO SHOP
When shopping for the right tools and ingredients for hot pot, your first bet is to 
visit an Asian food market. There are import and specialty food shops that might be helpful as well for those harder-to-find condiments and dried goods. This may /one.lf/four.lfbe an Asian gourmet store or a trading food company that is opened to the public. 
Otherwise, larger supermarkets that carry Asian produce and a decent condiment section will cover what you need. The great thing about hot pot is that the ingredients can be flexible; if you can’t find something you’re looking for, like a Japanese kabo-cha squash, another ingredient with a similar flavor or texture, like a sweet potato, will work.
Use fresh produce that is in season and at its best. If you are looking to cook 
a specific hot-pot style, such as Korean, check out a Korean grocer if there’s one around you. You will find a core selection of meat, vegetables, and seasonings that are foundational to that country’s cuisine. Check out and support the small stores in your area that carry and deliver Asian products, even for things like frozen dumplings and fish balls, which are classic hot-pot favorites. Alternatively, many stores nowa-days offer online shopping, so you can have harder-to-find ingredients shipped to your home.
What If I Can’t Get to an Asian Grocery Store?
You can make an excellent hot pot with ingredients that are available in supermar-
kets and online. Making a tasty homemade broth can be as simple as cooking with a whole small chicken or chicken bones, or a handful of mushrooms and diced toma-toes. Many vegetables (both leafy and root), mushrooms, meat, noodles, and dried goods are widely available. Frozen seafood, such as shrimp and calamari, can be found in any supermarket. And you can slice up your own meat for quick cooking by par-freezing your meat before cutting.
You can also substitute easy-to-find ingredients for many specialty items, and 
I’ve suggested substitutions throughout the book. A vegetable as simple as iceberg or green leaf lettuce adds good texture to hot pot if you can’t find a particular Asian green. In the end, hot pot can be achievable and easy and can make use of what-ever ingredients are available to you.
Hot Pot Cookbook for Beginners/one.lf/five.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotMAKING BROTH
Creating your own broth is fairly simple to do, whether you buy a packaged season-
ing packet or make your own from scratch. Here are some of my favorite approaches that will each serve you well in a variety of recipes in this book.
Powdered Broths and Seasoning Packets
These handy flavor bases are widely available in Asian supermarkets and online and help you create your hot-pot broth instantly. Powdered broths range from mush-room or vegetable to chicken and fish. For true convenience, buy hot-pot soup-base products. They come in a packet, pouch, or pod container and can be powdered, concentrated liquid, or paste. These complex soup bases contain harder-to-find seasonings and ingredients and many even make a restaurant’s secret blend conve-niently available to home cooks. With instructions on the package, they offer foolproof convenience: just dissolve the ingredients and simmer in water. (Some also ask you to add a few common ingredients to accentuate flavors, such as garlic and scallions.)
I recommend Lee Kum Kee, a reputable Chinese condiment company that offers 
a good selection of hot-pot broths in satay, seafood, and spicy Sichuan flavors conveniently concentrated in a liquid pouch. Another great brand comes from the world-famous, 300-restaurant chain Little Sheep Hot Pot, which offers spicy and non-spicy broth flavors. Dozens of herbs go into the soup base alone, and the com-pany says it is so unique and flavorful that dipping sauce is not required.
Making Stock
Rich meat stocks are generally made inexpensively with bones. Check out your local butchers and Asian meat counters, and if you don’t see them displayed, ask the staff if they have any set aside. I have also found them packaged fresh and frozen in Asian supermarkets. Pork neck and back bones are good choices to make pork broth, as they are meatier than other bones, which adds to the broth’s depth of flavor. Use chicken carcasses or a small whole chicken (after cooking, you can shred the meat to /one.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for Beginnerseat with the soup), beef bones such as legs, shins, and knuckles with a little marrow 
for richer flavor, and lamb bones.
Always blanch bones for about 5 minutes first, to rid them of impurities. I do this 
with a few slices of ginger to also get rid of any meat smells. Discard the water, rinse the bones thoroughly in cold water, and then hard simmer them in water for an aver -
age of 1 /one.num⁄/two.denom hours. Fish stock is usually made by stir-frying, then simmering, fish heads, bones, or skin-on pieces of fish with ginger slices until the broth is milky white (whole smelts are great for this), but you can also simply simmer a handful of dried anchovies or pick up prepared stock at your supermarket. Premade broths in cans or cartons (which are often prepared with Western ingredients such as onions, celery, and car -
rots) can work, but the brands Knorr and Swanson also offer chicken broth in cans (identified with Chinese writing on the label) that have savory seasonings that work better in Asian hot pots.
Vegetarian and Vegan Broths
The usual base ingredients for vegetarian broth include dried shiitake mushrooms, kombu, miso or doenjang soybean paste, kimchi, tomatoes, or coconut milk (which adds a creamy heartiness for Southeast Asian hot pots). This involves simmering the ingredients until flavor is rendered, dissolving the paste, or adding aromatics and seasonings to coconut milk. You can use a mushroom- or vegetable-based broth powder for a simple broth base. Canned vegetarian broths made with a medley of veggies are widely available at the stores. Choosing a version with Asian flavorings is ideal but not necessary.
Getting the Seasonings and Flavor Right
Spices offer aromatic layers of flavor, color, and texture that work in tandem to bal-ance and play off each other’s distinct characteristics. Oils add body and textured mouthfeel, such as silkiness to tofu and velvety richness to meats. Bolder broth com-positions with spices and oil develop more depth of flavor as you’re cooking and can be heartier and more satisfying./one.lf/seven.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotMy suggestion for preparing the broth recipes in this book for the first time is to 
follow the lower range of seasonings and spices in the ingredient list, then taste and 
adjust accordingly. It is always easier to add seasoning than to dilute with water or broth and have to rebuild the intended flavors up again! Especially with spicy broths, start low, then make note of how much you ended up using for next time.
Some common ingredients you may have or might want to try: Bay leaves impart a 
woodsy flavor, as do cinnamon sticks with a sweet and slightly warm citrusy note. Both should be removed from the broth before serving. Sichuan peppercorn (a.k.a. prickly ash) with its lemony overtone and numbing tongue-tingling quality works in tandem with spicy Sichuan facing heaven chiles to create the renowned spicy-tingly ma la tang(soup) profile; miso paste made from fermented soybeans creates a quick healthy broth base, and fish sauce (fermented anchovies or sardines) imparts a unique savory tang and saltiness. Cooking wine is usually salted and made from fermented rice used in everyday cooking. A popular variety is Shaoxing, which is amber in color, slightly vine-gary, and rich in taste. If you can’t find Shaoxing, dry sherry is a good substitute.
DIPPING SAUCES AND VINEGARS
Sauces impart a finesse to your meal just before you eat it. If you are cooking with a simple or mild broth, sauces also offer a flavor boost. The most commonly used ingredients, which you can enjoy with a wide variety of Asian hot pots, are a good all-purpose naturally brewed soy sauce as the main base (I like Pearl River Bridge brand); rice vinegar for tang and lift to counter the heaviness of meat; shacha(sa cha) sauce made from oil, garlic, shallots, chiles, and seafood, which is intensely savory with a grilled taste; sesame oil as a finishing aromatic nutty oil to add body; tahini sesame paste or peanut butter adds creamy nuttiness; sambal oelek made with red chiles, vinegar, and oil as a fiery addition to dips; and wasabi/hot mustard sold in tubes or alternatively Dijon mustard for pungent heat. Combine your favorite flavors—a little bit of this and that—in your dipping sauce to elevate the tastes of your cooked foods./one.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersGARNISHES
Garnishes are the final touch and flavor accent to the ingredients simmering in the 
hot pot. Most commonly served with Japanese hot pots, they are often an addition to dipping sauces and meant to be sprinkled on just before eating. You can also add these directly to your dipping sauce for textural vibrancy. I like to set out garnishes such as sliced scallions, chopped cilantro, garlic, and chiles with any sauce or condi-ments, so diners can mix and match to create their own blend.
Which garnishes should you use? Scallions refresh the palate with a touch 
of sharpness to balance bold-flavored foods. Cilantro gives food an herbaceous zing. Aromatic garlic is super delicious and complementary for all foods, and chiles brighten with heat punch. Anise-flavored Thai basil leaves accent Southeast Asian hot pots. White or black sesame seeds add visual texture. Red pepper flakes or ground cayenne pepper give food a spicy pop. A sprinkle of ground black or white pepper goes well with meats. Thinly shredded nori seaweed pairs nicely with seafood or tofu in a Japanese hot pot.
MAIN INGREDIENTS
Now, for the stars of the show. You can cook a wide variety of foods in your hot-pot broth, including vegetables, mushrooms, meat, dumplings, and noodles, and they can range from the most common, such as spinach and beef, to the gourmet and exotic, like oysters and offal. In my recipes, I focus on the more familiar items to make the hot-pot combinations approachable, but feel free to add any unique or special items you like. Fresh or frozen ingredients are always best, but in a pinch canned ingredi-ents can work nicely. Here are some of the most common types of ingredients I use in my hot pots:/one.lf/nine.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotTofu and Soy Products
Tofu: Also known as bean curd, tofu is produced from the milky liquid from crushed 
soy beans that is coagulated and pressed in a process similar to making cheese. Tofu makes a great meat substitute in vegetarian hot pots but is also great alongside other proteins.
Blocks of tofu are available in water-filled packages labeled silken, soft, medium, 
and firm in the refrigerated section of the grocery store. Soft is the most popular tex-ture because it is smooth and soaks up flavor well. Medium and firm hold up better when handling with the rest of the hot-pot ingredients. For soft tofu, cut the block into 1-inch cubes, and let them drain in a colander for 15 minutes to release excess moisture. Cooking tofu takes 1 minute.
Tofu Skin: This is the thin, rich layer of soy protein that forms on the surface of boil-
ing soy milk. The skin is dried and sold in long, thin strips that have a slightly chewy texture and soak up the broth flavors when cooked. Break into 3-inch pieces, hydrate in water for 3 hours, and cook for 2 minutes to soften.
Fried Tofu: There are two common kinds: dense and airy textures. Dense tofu is pack -
aged in bite-size triangles or squares and a block form (to be cut into bite-size pieces). 
The other kind, square, golden puffs of fried tofu, are light and airy inside. Both are precooked and need only 1 minute in the hot pot. Like tofu skin, puffs absorb the broth flavors well. Just be careful when you bite into them—they can be hot soup bombs!
Tofu Fish Cakes: These are sold in packages alongside fish and meatballs in the 
freezer section, and are often a blend of tofu and fish shaped into squares or fish. No need to thaw first, but cook these a little longer, 2 to 3 minutes.
Noodles
Noodles are available in many forms, but the most popular for hot pots are made from wheat, rice, mung beans, or konnyaku (a plant similar to taro). These noo-dles can be found fresh, frozen, or dried. If you’re in a pinch, pasta noodles such as /two.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for Beginnersfettuccine or vermicelli will work fine. Noodles are customarily served at the end with 
the broth, which has become a rich, flavorful soup, as a way of completing the meal.
Udon: These are thick wheat noodles sold both frozen and on the shelf in the 
dried-noodle aisle. Hearty and filling, they get well coated with the broth. Cook sepa-rately ahead of time, until al dente, so that they just need to be heated through.
Ramen: Made out of egg and wheat, these noodles are sold in fresh, frozen, and 
instant formats. They cook quickly in steaming broth—about 2 minutes. You can cook frozen ramen directly in the pot. If you are using instant noodle packages, just use the noodles and discard the seasoning packets unless specified.
Soba: Also known as buckwheat, these noodles are usually packaged in portioned 
serving bundles, are bespeckled, and can range in color from light to dark brown. They have a distinct nutty flavor and 1 cup contains a high 6 percent vegetable protein and vitamins B
1 and B2. To maximize its nutrition, look for brands made with 
100 percent buckwheat. Popular in Japanese cuisine, they need to cook first, until al dente, and should be rinsed several times in water to remove excess starch. In the hot pot, they only need to be warmed through.
Rice Noodles: When dried, these come in different thicknesses, from thin vermicelli to 
medium. Fresh rice noodles, also known as ho fun (medium-wide) can be found in the refrigerated section of most large Asian markets. Cook dried noodles according to the directions on the package, and blanch fresh noodles in hot water ahead of time to separate them. Drain well.
Mung Bean Noodles: Also called cellophane noodles, these are made from green mung 
beans, are sold dried, and often come in single-portion bundles in a package. These cook directly in the hot pot for a mere minute, loosened in the broth with chopsticks.
Konnyaku: This is sold in different formats and can be translucent to bespeckled 
grey, gelatinous, and sold in packages filled with salted water. The ones I prefer are white thin strands (called shirataki) or small knotted konnyaku bundles. Calorie-free, very low-carb, high in dietary fiber, and containing 97 percent water, konnyaku is 
considered a great diet food in Japan and China. It cooks in 1 minute./two.lf/one.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotCommon Ingredients
Button Mushrooms: Halve and cook for 
1 minute.
Carrots: Peel and slice on an angle into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces and cook for 2 minutes.
Celery: Peel and slice on an angle into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces and cook for 1 minute.
Cruciferous Vegetables (Broccoli, 
Cauliflower): Cut into 2-inch florets and cook for 1 minute.
Green Leafy Lettuce or Iceberg 
Lettuce: Cut into 3-inch pieces and cook for 30 seconds.Hot Dogs: Cut into bite-size pieces and cook for 1 to 2 minutes.
Leeks: Remove green parts, slice on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces and rinse well to remove sand; cook for 1 to 2 minutes.
Pineapple Chunks: Use fresh or 
canned pineapple chunks and cook for 30 seconds.
Spam: Slice into bite-size pieces and 
cook for 1 to 2 minutes.
Tomatoes: Cut into wedges and cook for 
2 minutes.
Leaves and Stems
Green vegetables are easy to add to the hot-pot table and impart great flavor to broths. They balance out a meal’s textures and colors and bring in the freshness of what’s in season—and they add lots of nutrition.
Asian Chives: Popular in Chinese and Korean cuisines, this long, green-stem vegeta-
ble is sold in bundles. The taste is a cross between scallions and garlic. Used chopped in the dumpling recipes; you can also add 3-inch pieces to broths for extra flavor.
Bamboo Shoots: Buy packaged whole poached shoots sold in the refrigerated sec-
tion. These taste better than canned, but ready-to-use canned versions are more readily available and can be found as whole, sliced, or slivered shoots. Whole shoots are ideal; you can thinly slice them yourself after rinsing in cold water and draining. Bamboo shoots cook in 1 to 2 minutes./two.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersBean Sprouts: These grow from sprouted mung beans and are used extensively 
across Asian cuisines. In hot pots, they cook in a mere 30 seconds.
Bok Choy: This classic Chinese vegetable with long crisp stalks and green spinach-like 
leaves is a hot-pot favorite. There is another type, Shanghai bok choy, which is green throughout. Both are also sold in a more tender baby variety. Heads of bok choy can be prepped with the outer large leaves sliced in half and the tender middle sliced lengthwise to keep it intact, and it cooks in 1 minute.
Mat Kimchi: Kimchi is a Korean fermented vegetable side dish made from a variety of 
vegetables such as napa cabbage and daikon radishes. “Mat ” kimchi simply means 
cut kimchi. Once opened, kimchi should be refrigerated so that it lasts longer.
Napa Cabbage: One of the most popular vegetables for hot pot, napa cabbage (also 
known as Chinese cabbage) has white stems, tightly packed pale green leaves, and a mild taste. Its porous leaves work like a sponge to soak up flavors. To prepare them, separate the leaves and cut into 2-inch pieces. These cook quickly, in 1 minute.
Spinach: You can use convenient, prewashed baby spinach or regular spinach sold 
in bunches for hot pot. Ensure the roots are trimmed off but keep the stems intact. Spinach cooks in less than 30 seconds.
Watercress: One of my favorite greens, watercress has small, rounded green leaves on 
thin stems, is sold in bunches, and tastes slightly peppery. Loosen the bunches and cook small handfuls for about 2 minutes. They impart a wonderful, sweet flavor to broths.
Mushrooms
Mushrooms contribute a hearty, meaty texture to the hot pot, and many hot-pot meals will have a variety of different types. Low in calories and rich in protein, mush-rooms add an earthy flavor to the broth and impart lots of umami richness. You can use any type of fresh mushrooms you like, but following are some of the most popular options for hot pot. Most mushrooms cook in 1 minute./two.lf/three.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotEnoki: White, delicate, and light, enokis come in bunches and should be separated. 
These are popular in Japanese and Korean hot pots and cook quickly, in 30 seconds.
King Oyster: With tan caps and thick stems, king oyster mushrooms have a rich 
umami flavor and meaty texture. Cut lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces.
Oyster Mushrooms: These are delicate mushrooms with irregularly shaped caps that 
add earthy flavor and fragrance. Cut them into pieces if they are too large.
Shiitake: Use fresh shiitake mushrooms whole or, if large, cut in half; they cook in 
about 2 minutes. Dried shiitakes, which can be purchased in Asian markets, are more concentrated than fresh and add distinct richness to the broth. Dried mushrooms should be rehydrated: soak them in warm water for 4 hours, and discard the woody stem. Cook for 5 minutes in the hot pot to also allow flavors to seep into the broth.
Shimeji: This Japanese mushroom is also known as a beech mushroom and grows in 
tight clusters of white stems with brown or white caps. Separate them into smaller bunches, which will offer a robust texture to the hot pot.
Straw Mushrooms: Straw mushrooms have small tan compact caps and thin stems 
and are a good option for canned mushrooms. Drain and rinse to use.
Root Vegetables
Roots and tubers add heft and al dente texture to hot pot. They also pair well with meat and tofu for heartiness. Cook these for just a short time to avoid a mushy texture.
Daikon: These large radishes are white with a green tinge and resemble a giant 
carrot. They are popular in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean hot-pot dishes. When poached, they develop a delicate sweetness, and they readily absorb hot-pot flavors. Peeled and sliced into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch rounds or moons, these cook for 2 minutes./two.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersKabocha Squash: This is a popular Japanese pumpkin with a tough, dark green skin 
with defined ridges. The flesh has a dense texture and is buttery yellow to bright orange. To prepare, cut the kabocha in half, peel, and seed it, then cut into /three.num⁄/four.denom-inch segments. You can use sweet potato or pumpkin as a substitute. Cook for 2 minutes.
Lotus Root: Crunchy lotus root is a tuber with large holes running through its center. 
Peel and slice crosswise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch rounds. Some stores offer frozen lotus root already sliced. Cook for 2 minutes.
Fish Balls and Meat Balls
Fish balls are like meatballs but are less dense. They have a smooth texture and are always a popular hot-pot ingredient. They are made with a variety of seafood such as fish, cuttlefish, shrimp, octopus, imitation crab, and lobster and can be shaped into balls and fried, or formed into cylinders or flat rectangles called fish cakes (popular in Japanese and Korean stores). You can also find packages of assorted fish balls spe-cially designed for Japanese oden (stew).
Any Asian supermarket will have a frozen assortment, with some places offering 
fresh. Fish or seafood balls tend to be smooth and springy, whereas meatballs are denser and more toothsome. If you find fresh seasoned fish paste sold in a tub (which is often made of dace fish), an easy way to form a fish dumpling is to scoop some paste with a teaspoon and slide it out with another spoon to create an oval shape. Frozen fish balls do not need to be defrosted before use. Cook fresh for 3 minutes and frozen for 5 minutes before eating.
Meatballs are also popular. They are made with chicken, pork, or beef and can 
be found frozen or in the refrigerated section. Beef balls are often served with Viet-namese beef noodle pho soup; if you can find ones with tendon, these are the most bouncy and flavorful. Cook frozen meatballs for 5 minutes and fresh meatballs for 3 minutes./two.lf/five.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotDumplings
Asian dumplings of all kinds are becoming more widely available in all kinds of stores, 
usually in the freezer section. A well-stocked Asian supermarket will have a broader selection, including popular versions filled with pork, pork and vegetables (such as leeks, napa cabbage, or chives), and beef. Look for dumplings that are meant to be boiled in water, as there are also versions made for panfrying, such as Japanese gyoza. You can often find vegetable- and kimchi-filled dumplings in Korean super-markets. Wontons are soup dumplings that have a thinner, more translucent skin and are commonly filled with pork or pork and shrimp. You can cook frozen wontons directly in the hot pot for 3 minutes, and dumplings for about 5 minutes. They are ready when they float to the surface.
Eggs
Chicken eggs can be boiled ahead and peeled. You can also do that for cute, tiny quail eggs, which are popular in hot pots. Alternatively, look for cooked quail eggs in cans; drain and rinse before use. A beaten egg is commonly added to dipping sauces for Chinese and Japanese hot pot as an accompaniment to temper the heat and impart silkiness to foods. For raw use, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recom-mends using pasteurized eggs since they are less at risk of containing salmonella.
Other Dry Goods
These specialty ingredients are found in Asian supermarkets and specialty food shops.
Seaweed: For hot-pot broths, look for dried kelp (kombu), an edible umami-rich deep 
ocean seaweed used to create Japanese dashi—the base of Japanese stock and Korean broths. Kombu is best soaked in room-temperature water, then simmered briefly. (If you cook it too long, the broth will turn slimy; discard the kombu after /two.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for Beginnerscooking.) Another type of seaweed is wakame. Buy these dried and precut to add 
texture. Hydrate in the broth to enjoy in 1 minute.
Seitan: Also known as wheat gluten, this ingredient is a cooked, ready-to-eat, plant-
based food made from vital wheat gluten. It is an alternative to soybean-based foods and sometimes used as a meat analogue. Some types of seitan have a chewy or stringy texture that resembles meat more than other substitutes. Great for a vege-tarian diet, it is high in protein and versatile in a wide range of meatless recipes. It can be refrigerated in packages, canned, or jarred (the latter two should be drained first). Iprefer the fresh kind. These will cook in just 1 to 2 minutes.
Rice Cakes: This ingredient, made from glutinous and non-glutinous rice flours, is shaped into firm cylinders or thin ovals, and can be found both frozen and fresh. These are popular in Korean and Chinese cuisines and add a chewy deliciousness to hot pot. Separate the pieces, and cook them for 5 to 7 minutes, until they plump up. (Seitan is a good substitution for texture.)
SEAFOOD, MEAT, AND POULTRY
Popular hot-pot proteins include a wide variety of seafood and meats. Fish and shell-fish impart briny sweetness; chicken gives a light savory taste; while beef, pork, and lamb bestow richer flavors. Cut into bite-size pieces or thinly sliced, these ingredients cook quickly, about 30 seconds for meat and 2 minutes for seafood.
Meats are certainly interchangeable in these recipes; for instance, beef can 
replace lamb, and you shouldn’t worry about getting exactly the right cut. As long as meats are thinly sliced, most cuts will work in hot pot./two.lf/seven.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotFish
When choosing fish for hot pot, boneless fillets are best. Fresh skinless salmon is 
popular. Frozen white fish fillets are also convenient, and flaky basa, cod, and snap-per are often sold boneless, making them very practical to use. Avoid oily fish, such as mackerel, sardines, or anchovies (though dried specimens are sometimes used for making broth). If you buy frozen fish fillets, thaw and drain well before use. Cut all pieces of fish into two-bite pieces; these take less than a minute to cook.
I’ve had a whole fresh-caught fish cooked in hot pot (lẩu)  in Vietnam, but this is 
less typical. If you want to try it, scale the fish, rinse well, remove the fins, and simmer it in your hot pot until fully cooked. Carefully remove it, whole, onto a plate before adding other ingredients to your hot pot. This method creates an instant, delicious fish broth—and, of course, you get to eat the fish, too! The Importance of Thinly Sliced Meat
In Asian supermarkets, you’ll find frozen presliced packages of meat that are con-
veniently designed for hot pots. Thinly sliced meats can be found rolled into frozen cylinders, which makes it easy to remove them for use. You may also be able to buy raw meat that is already shaved thin or ask your butcher to cut it for you.
While these options are convenient, you can easily slice the meat yourself: Freeze 
for 2 to 3 hours or until the meat is firm enough. To get a slice as thin as possible, make sure your knife is very sharp. It is much easier to slice thinly when the meat is semi-frozen. If it is large, section it into manageable pieces, and always slice against the grain. Or use a mandolin with pieces that fit inside the hand guard. Lay the slices slightly overlapping each other on a plate, cover, and refrigerate until serving./two.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersShellfish
Many kinds of shellfish are popular in hot pots. Shrimp offer a sweet flavor and 
slightly chewy texture (I like using black tiger shrimp, which are firm). These cook for about 2 minutes or until they are opaque and firm. Squid, with the tentacles sepa-rated and the body cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch rings, and calamari rings both offer interesting texture and cook for about 1 minute, until opaque. Medium-size scallops, which are nicely sweet, and imitation crab meat (surimi) cut into bite-size pieces, both cook for 30 seconds. Mussels and clams, which are rich and briny, can be used whole or on the half shell for mussels. If whole, look for ones that close after you tap on their shells; they should also feel heavy for their size. Cook for less than 2 minutes and dis-card the ones that don’t open.
Wash and rinse all of your thawed seafood with cold water and salt to clean thor-
oughly, then drain before use. Be careful not to overcook seafood, or the texture will be rubbery.
Poultry
Chicken wings, sliced chicken breast, and thigh meat are popular poultry cuts to use in hot pot. These do not have to be thinly sliced; bite-size slices are typical and cook in 2 minutes. Whole wings should be cut at the joints for ease of eating. Wing tips can be removed and frozen to make chicken stock.
Beef
The best beef cuts for hot pot are brisket, sirloin, top blade, and chuck. The meat should be firm, finely textured and red. If these are not available, look for anything with a good marbling for tenderness. Thinly sliced, all these cuts should cook in 30 seconds./two.lf/nine.lf Everything You Need to Enjoy Hot PotPork
Thinly sliced pork shoulder, butt, and jowl are popular for their tenderness. Koreans 
love to use pork belly in hot pots; it’s sold pre-cut in Korean markets. Cook all of your pork pieces until they have no trace of pink; this should take less than 1 minute.
Lamb
Thinly sliced shoulder or leg is the more tender ideal part of lamb to use. You may need to look for this at a specialty meat counter; however, in Asian supermarkets they are readily available frozen, thinly sliced for this purpose. These cook in 30 seconds. Mutton is a beloved hot-pot meat for its strong gamey taste that complements spicier broths.
ABOUT THE RECIPES
You will find 13 broth recipes in chapter 3 that cover a range of popular Asian broths commonly used in hot pots or that have been adapted from soups. Broth recipes serve up to 8 people. Note that the hot pot recipes serve 4, and you can double the ingredients to serve 8. I recommend cooking 12 to 14 cups of broth to start, with the remaining broth used to replenish the pot as needed.
Everything has a cook time, and whether you are cooking foods all together 
before serving or cooking as you eat, always prepare hot pot with the ingredients’ cook time in mind. The recipes are focused on tableside cooking, with my favorite combinations in each themed hot pot. Try serving with my suggested dipping sauces or create your own.
Chapter 4 will have recipes for some delicious dipping sauces and ingredients, 
such as dumplings, meatballs, and marinated fish. In chapters 5 and 6, complete rec-ipes with broth and ingredient combinations are provided. These recipes are labeled with their country of origin and with labels that place them in an identifiable category of use. Feel free to adjust recipes as needed. These are only guidelines that show the best-suited ingredients for that broth. Get creative, mix and match, and experiment!DASHI BROTH, PAGE 40/three.lf/one.lfCHAPTER THREE
Broths
ALL-PURPOSE SIMPLE CHICKEN BROTH 32
FRAGRANT MIXED MUSHROOM BROTH 33
PORK BONE BROTH 34
SPICY AND TINGLY MA LA BROTH 35
SPICY AND HERBAL LAMB BROTH 36
EASY SMOKY SHACHA BARBECUE BROTH 38
SOYBEAN OR MISO BROTH 39
DASHI BROTH 40
MILKY WHITE FISH BROTH 42
TANGY AND SWEET BROTH (BÒ NHÚNG DÂ´M) 43
SAVORY PHO BEEF BROTH 44
HOT-AND-SOUR TOM YUM BROTH 46
CREAMY COCONUT BROTH 47/three.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersALL-PURPOSE SIMPLE CHICKEN BROTH
GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEAT
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  1 /one.num⁄/two.denom to 2 hours
Chicken is the most versatile meat broth base suitable for any style of hot pot. This 
golden broth is multipurpose and is called for as a base broth starter in the subse-quent recipes. Dried goji berries (high in antioxidants) and red dates (maintain blood circulation) are invaluable ingredients in traditional Chinese medicine for health ben-efits and to impart sweetness. If you are using this chicken broth recipe as a base, omit them.
33 cups cold water, divided
4 pounds chicken bones, 
or 2 chicken carcasses 
(skin and excess fat removed)
5 peeled (1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch-wide 
and /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch-thick) ginger slices, divided
3 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into 3-inch pieces
2 tablespoons dried goji 
berries (optional)
8 dried Chinese red dates 
(optional)/one.lf.Fill a large stockpot with 12 cups of water and bring 
to a boil. Place the chicken bones into the water.
/two.lf.Add 2 slices of ginger and cook for 5 minutes to blanch the bones to remove impurities.
/three.lf.Drain and rinse bones thoroughly with cold water.
/four.lf.Rinse and wipe the stockpot, then fill it with the remaining 21 cups of water. Add the chicken bones, remaining 3 slices of ginger, the scallions, goji ber-ries (if using), and dates (if using).
/five.lf.Bring to a boil, partially covered, then simmer over low heat for 1½ to 2 hours. Skim off any scum and excess oil that floats to the surface.
/six.lf.Strain through a sieve into another large pot.
/seven.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for up to 5 days or freeze for up to 3 months.
SUBSTITUTION:  Use 4 pounds chicken wings, chicken legs, 
or a small whole chicken. Cook for 1 hour. Shred the chicken 
to serve the meat alongside the hot pot./three.lf/three.lf BrothsFRAGRANT MIXED MUSHROOM BROTH
CHINESE, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEATLESS, SPICY
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  4 hours (for soaking) |  COOK TIME:  35 minutes
This fresh and fragrant Chinese hot-pot style from Yunnan uses foraged mushrooms. 
We’re using dried mushrooms with more earthiness and umami than fresh ones. In Yunnan, flowers and/or mint are typically included. We won’t add flowers here, but do try adding fresh mint for a layer of cool sweetness.
12 dried whole shiitake 
mushrooms
3 cups warm 
water, divided
30 grams dried porcini 
mushrooms
17 cups cold water
2 peeled (1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch-wide 
and /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch-thick) 
ginger slices
3 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into 3-inch pieces
12 dried Chinese red dates
1 to 3 teaspoons Sichuan 
peppercorns (optional)
3 to 6 Sichuan facing 
heaven chiles (optional)
2 to 3 tablespoons 
mushroom or vegetable 
broth mix powder
Handful fresh mint leaves 
(optional)
3 large tomatoes, each cut 
into 8 wedges
Salt/one.lf.In a medium bowl, soak the shiitake mushrooms in 
2 cups of warm water for 4 hours. In another bowl, soak the porcini mushrooms in the remaining 1 cup of warm water for 1 hour. Reserve the soaking liquids.
/two.lf.In a stockpot, combine the cold water, ginger, scallions, dates, Sichuan peppercorns (if using), and chiles (if using). Add the reserved mushroom liquids, straining any debris, and broth mix powder. Stir and bring to a boil. Turn the heat down to medium and simmer for 30 minutes.
/three.lf.Add the mint leaves (if using) during the last 5 minutes of cooking.
/four.lf.Remove the whole mushrooms and cut off the stems. Strain and discard the aromatics from the broth. Transfer the broth base into the hot pot.
/five.lf.Add the mushroom caps and the tomato and simmer for 5 minutes more. Season with salt to taste.
/six.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for up to 5 days or freeze for up to 3 months./three.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersPORK BONE BROTH
GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEAT
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  2 hours
This is my very favorite broth for hot pot. It’s primarily made with pork bones, but I 
also add chicken bones in a 2:1 ratio. Growing up, my mother always combined these in her soups so that the flavors played off each other. Chicken imparts sweetness that complements pork’s meaty flavor, and the resulting broth tastes sweet and hearty. Always blanch and rinse the pork bones thoroughly of coagulated blood and impurities. This will create a clear, pale, rather than a dark, broth.
33 cups cold water, divided
3 pounds pork back or 
neck bones (I look for 
meaty pieces)
4 peeled (1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch-wide 
and /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch-thick) ginger slices, divided
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds chicken bones, 
or 1 chicken carcass (skin and excess fat removed)
1 large onion, chopped/one.lf.Fill a large stockpot with 12 cups of water and bring 
to a boil. Place the pork bones in the water.
/two.lf.Add 2 slices of ginger and cook for 5 minutes to blanch the bones to remove impurities.
/three.lf.Drain and rinse the bones thoroughly with cold water.
/four.lf.Rinse and wipe the stockpot then fill it with the remaining 21 cups of water. Add the pork and chicken bones, the remaining 2 slices of ginger, and the onion. Bring to a boil, partially covered, then simmer over low heat for 2 hours. Skim off any scum that floats to the surface.
/five.lf.Remove the pork bones then strain through a sieve into another large pot.
/six.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for up to 5 days or freeze for up to 3 months.
VARIATION:  Remove cooked pork from the bones and 
serve with soy sauce mixed with a little sesame oil./three.lf/five.lf BrothsSPICY AND TINGLY MA LA BROTH
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHINESE, MEATLESS, SPICY
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  30 minutes
Ma la or ma lat in Chinese translates to “numbing spicy,” which is exactly what Sich-
uan chiles and peppercorns evoke on your taste buds. Revered in Chongqing, China, this beloved spicy broth is served at hot-pot restaurants filled to the brim with red chiles. Coupled with the numb-tingling sensation left on your tongue from the Sich-uan peppercorns, it makes for a rich, bold, and fiery eating experience.
/one.num⁄/four.denom to /one.num⁄/two.denom cup neutral 
cooking oil
/one.num⁄/four.denom to /one.num⁄/two.denom cup Sichuan 
hot bean sauce 
(doubanjiang or Chinese chile bean paste)
12 to 15 garlic cloves, 
coarsely chopped
6 scallions, both green and 
white parts, cut into 3-inch pieces
2 tablespoons to 
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup Sichuan whole peppercorns
15 to 30 Sichuan facing 
heaven chiles
1 cup Chinese cooking wine
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup light soy sauce18 cups cold water or 
All-Purpose Simple 
Chicken Broth (page 32)
4 bay leaves
SaltGround white pepper/one.lf.In a large stockpot, heat the oil and hot bean sauce 
on medium-high for 30 seconds.
/two.lf.Carefully add the garlic, scallions, Sichuan pep-percorns, and chiles. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, being careful not to burn the ingredients. Slowly add the wine and soy sauce and stir for another minute.
/three.lf.Carefully add the water and bay leaves to the pot and bring to a boil. Simmer for 30 minutes.
/four.lf.Remove the bay leaves. Season to taste with salt and ground pepper. Serve with the aromatics.
/five.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for up to 5 days or freeze for up to 3 months.
PAIRING TIP:  Make sure you have an icy-cold beverage 
nearby—you will need it!/three.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSPICY AND HERBAL LAMB BROTH
CHINESE, MEAT, MONGOLIAN, SPICY
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  2 hours 15 minutes
Rich and savory, this is a bold, complex broth giving a nod to its origin in Mongolia. 
Inspired by the renowned Mongolian hot-pot chain Little Sheep Hot Pot, many herbs and spices go into developing the broth’s aromatic and layered flavors that comple-ment the strong-tasting flavor of the lamb bones used to make it. Mutton is what is typically used in Asia. If lamb bones are hard to find, you can substitute with chicken bones. If you have a split pot, this is a popular broth base to offer both spicy and non-spicy versions. Make the entire broth recipe and remove half to cook with ingre-dients noted in the variation tip below.
30 cups cold 
water, divided
4 pounds lamb or mutton 
bones (ask the butcher 
counter for this)
5 peeled 
(1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch-wide-by-/one.num⁄/four.denom-inch-thick) ginger slices, divided
5 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into 3-inch pieces, divided
12 whole black 
peppercorns
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup light soy sauce
15 garlic cloves, peeled 
and smashed
15 whole cloves10 dried Chinese red dates/one.lf.Fill a large stockpot with 10 cups of water and bring 
to a boil. Add the lamb bones to the water.
/two.lf.Add 2 slices of ginger and cook for 5 minutes to blanch the bones to remove impurities.
/three.lf.Drain and rinse the bones thoroughly with cold water.
/four.lf.Rinse and wipe the stockpot then fill it with the remaining 20 cups of water. Add the lamb bones, the remaining 3 slices of ginger, the white parts of the scallions, and the peppercorns. Bring to a boil, partially covered, then simmer over low heat for 1½ to 2 hours.
/five.lf.Skim off any scum that floats to the surface. Remove and discard the bones and strain the liquid through a sieve.
continued >>/three.lf/seven.lf Broths5 star anise
5 dried bay leaves2 (3-inch) cinnamon sticks2 tablespoons dried 
goji berries
Ground white pepper/six.lf.Return the broth to the stockpot. Add the soy sauce, 
garlic, cloves, dates, star anise, bay leaves, cinna-mon sticks, goji berries, and pepper. Bring the broth to a boil over high heat; cover, lower the heat to low, and simmer until fragrant for 15 minutes, leaving the aromatics in.
/seven.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for up to 5 days or freeze for up to 3 months.
SUBSTITUTION:  You can use 20 cups of All-Purpose 
Simple Chicken Broth (page 32) in place of the lamb broth 
and skip to step 6.
VARIATION:  To make a half batch of a spicy version, in a 
separate medium pot over medium heat, add /one.num⁄/four.denom to /one.num⁄/two.denom cup of oil. When hot, cook 10 to 20 Sichuan facing heaven chiles and /one.num⁄/two.denom to 2 teaspoons of red pepper flakes for 1 to 2 minutes, being careful not to burn the ingredients. Carefully pour in half of the broth (10 cups) with aromatics; simmer for 10 minutes and serve in a split pot. Or double these ingredients to make the entire broth spicy./three.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersEASY SMOKY SHACHA
BARBECUE BROTH
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHINESE, SEAFOOD, SPICY, TAIWANESE
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
A Taiwanese-inspired favorite, shacha (or sa cha) sauce’s robust grill flavors are 
easily enjoyed as a hot-pot broth prepared with just plain water or chicken. Soybean oil, garlic, chiles, brill fish, and dried shrimp make up its savory, smoky barbecue pro-file and slight spiciness. 
18 cups cold water or 
All-Purpose Simple 
Chicken Broth (page 32)
1 cup shacha or sa cha
barbecue sauce
/three.num⁄/four.denom to 1 cup fish sauce
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugar
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup light soy sauce/one.lf.In a large stockpot, bring the water to a boil.
/two.lf.Mix the shacha sauce well to combine the oil and 
solids. Add the shacha sauce, fish sauce, sugar, and soy sauce to the pot. Stir well. Turn the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes.
/three.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for up to 5 days. Not recommended for freezing.
VARIATION:  To add tang to the broth, gradually add up to 
1 cup of unseasoned rice vinegar or white vinegar to taste.
INGREDIENT TIP: Shacha is one of those tricky condiments 
to find, as it is not always indicated on the label. Look for 
Bullhead, the most popular brand (with a cartoon bull on the front), also offered in a vegetarian option. Lee Kum Kee has their product clearly labeled as Sa Cha Sauce; however, many brands just call it barbecue sauce or satay sauce. Read the ingredient label to verify that this is indeed the right condiment. If it contains peanuts, then it is a different kind of satay sauce used for Southeast Asian cooking./three.lf/nine.lf BrothsSOYBEAN OR MISO BROTH
JAPANESE, KOREAN, MEATLESS
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  4 hours (for soaking) |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
A healthy, flavorful broth can be simply made with fermented soybean paste from 
Korea’s doenjang or miso from Japan. Soaking the kombu, or kelp, a nutrient-rich seaweed, extracts the umami flavor, coming off as a slimy substance. You can simmer the kombu in the broth for a few minutes, but it should never be boiled, or it will become bitter. If you prefer to use miso for a more Japanese profile, omit the garlic. The lighter the color of miso, the sweeter and milder the flavor. For hot pot, I recommend a red soybean–based miso that has a deep umami flavor.
12 dried medium shiitake 
mushrooms
2 cups warm water
4 pieces kombu, each 
about 2 by 6 inches
18 cups cold water3 tablespoons neutral 
cooking oil
4 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into 
3-inch pieces
2 medium onions, sliced
12 to 15 garlic cloves, 
coarsely chopped 
(optional)
1 cup Korean doenjang or 
Japanese miso
Salt/one.lf.In a medium bowl, soak the mushrooms in the warm 
water for 4 hours. Remove the mushrooms from the water, discard the stems, and thinly slice the caps. Reserve the water, straining out any debris.
/two.lf.Wipe the kombu with a damp cloth to clean the cloudy residue on its surface. With scissors, cut into 2-inch pieces. In a large stockpot, soak the kombu in the cold water for 2 hours. Remove the kelp.
/three.lf.In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium-high, add the scallions, onions, and mushrooms; sauté for 2 minutes until fragrant and the onions are soft.
/four.lf.Pour in the kelp stock and reserved mushroom liquid. Bring to a boil and add the garlic (if using). Let cook for 1 minute and add the doenjang paste.
/five.lf.Cover and simmer for 15 minutes. Adjust the sea-sonings and salt to taste. No need to strain the ingredients.
/six.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for 2 to 3 days or freeze for up to 3 months./four.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersDASHI BROTH
GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, JAPANESE, SEAFOOD
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  2 hours (for soaking) |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
A light clear broth composed of dashi (kombu and bonito flakes) is the hallmark of 
Japanese cuisine and the starter base of a good miso soup. Bonito flakes are the shavings from skipjack tuna that has been simmered, smoked, and fermented. I also have included a variation using dried anchovies or sardines. Called iriko or niboshidashi, this is a very common broth choice because these tiny fish are more affordable than kombu or katsuobushi. It makes a lovely briny fish broth.
4 (2-by-6-inch) pieces 
kombu (kelp)
20 cups cold water
4 cups dried bonito flakes 
(katsuobushi)/one.lf.Using a damp cloth, wipe the kombu to clean the 
cloudy residue on its surface.
/two.lf.Fill a large stockpot with the water, then add the seaweed and soak for at least 2 hours. You can heat and simmer the kombu for a few minutes to optimize the flavor, but it should never be boiled, as it will turn your broth slimy and bitter. Remove the kelp.
/three.lf.Bring the liquid to a boil and add the bonito flakes. Turn down the heat to simmer for a few minutes while removing foam on top thoroughly. Turn off the heat. Allow the bonito to sink to the pot bottom.
/four.lf.Strain the liquid through a sieve into another pot (do not squeeze liquid from the remaining dried bonito flakes, as it will impart bitterness)./four.lf/one.lf Broths/five.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for 2 to 
3 days or freeze for up to 3 months.
SUBSTITUTION:  If you are in a hurry, instant dashi stock 
sold in granules is a good alternative.
VARIATION:  To make Japanese iriko or niboshi dashi, use 
2 cups dried anchovies or sardines (packages found in 
Asian grocery stores) and 20 cups of water. Prepare the dried fish by removing the heads and guts around the belly area (bottom side), to prevent bitterness in the broth. It is black and easy to pull out.
In a large stockpot, soak the fish in water for at least 
30 minutes or up to overnight. Bring the water to a boil, then lower the heat to low and cook for 8 to 10 minutes. Strain the clear liquid through a sieve into another large pot./four.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersMILKY WHITE FISH BROTH
CHINESE, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, SEAFOOD
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  45 minutes
My mom showed me this technique for white broth—it’s like an ancient Chinese 
secret! Fish broth is prepared by first sautéing fish heads or bones in a little oil until golden with ginger slices to remove any fishy aroma. Then boiling water is poured onto the fish in the stockpot to release the flavors, turning the water white. It will develop into a milky white broth as it simmers. To make the recipe more practical I have called for smelts, which are inexpensive, accessible, and great in achieving a lovely, slightly sweet milky fish broth.
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup neutral cooking oil
4 peeled (1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch-wide 
and /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch-thick) ginger 
slices, divided
3 to 4 pounds whole smelt 
(or look for fish heads and bones from a white fish such as carp or threadfin at the fish counter in an Asian supermarket)
20 cups boiling hot 
water, divided/one.lf.In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat. 
Add 2 slices of ginger and let cook for 30 seconds.
/two.lf.Add the smelt. Sauté the fish until golden on both sides. Be careful not to burn, or the broth will be dark and contain charred bits. Remove the ginger slices.
/three.lf.Turn the heat to medium-high. Carefully pour 10 cups of boiling hot water over the fish. Once the water hits the pot, it will bubble vigorously; this is when the broth will turn white. Add the remaining 10 cups of water and 2 ginger slices.
/four.lf.Lower the heat to medium and simmer, partially covered, for 45 minutes, skimming off any scum and extra oil that floats to the surface. Strain the liquid through a sieve into another pot.
/five.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for 2 days or freeze for up to 3 months./four.lf/three.lf BrothsTANGY AND SWEET BROTH 
(BÒ NHÚNG DÂ´M)
45 MINUTES OR LESS, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEATLESS, VIETNAMESE
MAKES 16 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Bò nhúng dấm translates to “beef vinegar dip,” but it can certainly be used to cook 
veggies! The dining experience with this broth is likened to Japanese sukiyaki, in that you cook ingredients in liquid meant to flavor the ingredients, not enjoyed like a soup. This tangy and sweet profile is the go-to hot pot my husband’s Vietnamese family makes to enjoy with beef. It’s simply water (variations can include fresh coconut juice or even beer), rice vinegar, sugar, salt, and some aromatics. My father-in-law liked to use 7UP instead of sugar, and it was always a hit!
8 cups cold water
4 cups unseasoned rice 
vinegar or white vinegar
3 (12-ounce) cans 7UP or 
Sprite soda
2 tablespoons salt2 large onions, halved6 celery stalks, cut into 
3 pieces/one.lf.In a large stockpot, combine the water, vinegar, 
soda, and salt over medium-high heat and bring to a boil.
/two.lf.Add the onions and celery. Simmer, partially cov-ered, for 15 minutes.
/three.lf.Serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIP:  This broth is not meant as a soup but as 
a flavoring to ingredients. Use 12 cups to start the hot pot, 
and the other 4 cups for replenishing./four.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSAVORY PHO BEEF BROTH
GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEAT, VIETNAMESE
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  45 minutes |  COOK TIME:  3 hours
This is my authentic broth recipe to make pho beef noodle soup. I used to think it 
cooked for half a day, but it is far easier and less time-consuming. I like the bones with a little marrow for added collagen and body in the broth. The extra steps in toasting your spices and broiling the onions and ginger make a huge difference in the final broth flavor, which is full of distinct warm spices and savory characteristics.
33 cups cold water, divided
4 pounds beef bones (beef 
leg, shins, knuckles, 
and knees; with some marrow is best)
2 peeled (1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch-wide 
and /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch-thick) ginger slices
1 large white onion, 
unpeeled and halved
3-inch piece fresh ginger, 
halved lengthwise
Neutral cooking oil, for 
brushing
4 star anise
4 whole cloves2 (3-inch) cinnamon sticks2 brown cardamom pods, 
bruised (optional)/one.lf.Fill a large stockpot with 12 cups of water and bring 
to a boil. Place the beef bones into the water.
/two.lf.Add the slices of ginger and cook for 5 minutes to blanch the bones and remove impurities.
/three.lf.Drain and rinse the bones thoroughly with cold water.
/four.lf.Rinse and wipe the stockpot. Fill with the remain-ing 21 cups of water, add the beef bones, and bring to a boil.
/five.lf.Meanwhile, preheat the broiler to high and place the baking rack 6 to 8 inches away from the heating element.
/six.lf.On a baking sheet, place the onion and ginger halves cut-side up, and brush with a bit of oil. Broil for 15 to 20 minutes, until the tops of the onion and ginger are nicely charred. Remove and set aside.
continued >>/four.lf/five.lf Broths/seven.lf.In a pan, toast the star anise, cloves, cinnamon, and 
cardamom pods over medium-high heat for about 3 minutes, stirring, until fragrant. Place the smaller aromatics in a spice ball or wrap them in a cheese cloth. Add the spices and cinnamon sticks to the pot. Add the charred onion, ginger, and daikon.
/eight.lf.Bring the water back to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat to medium-low; simmer for 2½ hours, fre-quently skimming the surface of scum and oil.
/nine.lf.Stir in the fish sauce, sugar, and salt and return to a boil, then simmer over low heat for 30 minutes. Taste and season the broth as needed. Strain the broth through a strainer into another large pot.
/one.lf/zero.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for 3 days or freeze for up to 3 months.1 (6-ounce) daikon, 
roughly chopped
/one.num⁄/three.denom cup fish sauce
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup golden or 
granulated sugar
2 tablespoons sea salt/four.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersHOT-AND-SOUR TOM YUM BROTH
45 MINUTES OR LESS, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEATLESS, THAI
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Tom yum is a spicy, savory, and tangy brew. Galangal, a ginger-like rhizome, adds a 
distinctive lemony flavor, and lime leaves impart a wonderful citrus fragrance. Sweet and spicy Thai chile paste consists of roasted aromatics and shrimp paste. Instead, I mix equal parts shacha barbecue sauce with sambal oelek to achieve a similar flavor. If you don’t have these, add chopped fresh red chiles instead. 
3 tablespoons neutral 
cooking oil
2 (2-inch) pieces fresh 
galangal root or ginger 
root, thinly sliced
3 to 4 lemongrass stalks, 
outer layers removed, crushed and cut into 4-inch pieces, or /one.num⁄/two.denom cup chopped lemongrass, frozen and thawed
20 cups cold water
/one.num⁄/two.denom to /three.num⁄/four.denom cup fish sauce2 to 4 tablespoons Thai 
chile paste (nam 
prik pao) or chopped red chiles
2 (1.41-ounce) packets 
tamarind soup mix
10 lime leaves, torn
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugar
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup freshly squeezed 
lime juice/one.lf.In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium-high 
heat. Add the galangal and lemongrass. Cook for 1 minute, stirring until fragrant.
/two.lf.Add the water, fish sauce, chile paste, tamarind soup mix, lime leaves, and sugar. Bring to a boil.
/three.lf.Lower the heat to medium-low and simmer for 15 minutes.
/four.lf.Strain the broth through a strainer into another large pot. Stir in the lime juice before serving.
/five.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for 5 days or freeze for up to 3 months.
SUBSTITUTION:  Use 10 (1-inch) thinly sliced peels from two 
limes instead of lime leaves.
VARIATION:  Omit the sugar and add 1 cup of fresh or 
canned pineapple chunks./four.lf/seven.lf BrothsCREAMY COCONUT BROTH
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CAMBODIAN, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MALAYSIAN, THAI
MAKES 20 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
Popularly used in Cambodian hot pot, this creamy broth is called ya-hon. Creaminess 
is key to imparting that richness to ingredients cooked in it. I’ve called for full-fat coco-nut milk not the coconut milk thinned for drinking. The more shacha sauce you add, the spicier it will be, and it will give an orange slick to the creamy broth. The rich texture and flavors make a delicious broth to build on other coconut-based Southeast Asian hot pots by adding seasonings like curry powder, Thai curry paste, and aromatics.
4 (13.5-ounce) cans full-fat 
coconut milk
1 to 2 cups shacha or sa 
chabarbecue sauce 
(Bullhead brand or 
Vegetarian label)
8 cups coconut water or 
coconut soda (Coco Rico is a popular brand)
4 cups cold water or 
All-Purpose Simple Chicken Broth (page 32)
/one.num⁄/three.denom cup fish sauce
2 teaspoons salt/three.num⁄/four.denom cup crushed roasted 
peanuts (optional)/one.lf.In a large stockpot, bring the coconut milk to a 
simmer over medium heat, stirring often to prevent burning.
/two.lf.Mix the shacha sauce well to combine the oil and solids and stir into the coconut milk to combine and dissolve.
/three.lf.Then add the coconut water and cold water. Stir to combine and bring to a light boil over medium-high heat.
/four.lf.Add the fish sauce and salt, adjusting to your taste. Lower the heat and simmer for 5 minutes.
/five.lf.Finish with the peanuts (if using) or add to your dipping sauce.
/six.lf.Refrigerate the broth in an airtight container for 3 days.
VARIATION: Shacha sauce is prepared with seafood. If you 
prefer, buy the vegetarian version to make your broth and 
substitute soy sauce instead of fish sauce.BOK CHOY, SHIITAKE, AND CHIVE DUMPLINGS, PAGE 60/four.lf/nine.lfCHAPTER FOUR
Sauces and Homemade 
Ingredients
SAVORY SOY DIPPING SAUCE 50
AROMATIC SCALLION AND GINGER OIL 51
SILKY EGG AND SHACHA BARBECUE SAUCE 52
CREAMY SESAME DIPPING SAUCE 53
SWEET AND SOUR CHILE SAUCE 54
SEASONED FISH SAUCE (NUOC MAM CHAM) 55
SIMPLE SUKIYAKI SAUCE (WARISHITA) 56
PORK AND SHRIMP WONTONS 58
BASIC DUMPLING DOUGH (FOR SOUPS) 59
BOK CHOY, SHIITAKE, AND CHIVE DUMPLINGS 60
MEAT AND VEGETABLE DUMPLINGS 62
SICHUAN SPICY MA LA MARINATED FISH 63
HOMEMADE MEATBALLS 64/five.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSAVORY SOY DIPPING SAUCE
45 MINUTES OR LESS, ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, EASY, MEATLESS
MAKES 1 CUP /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes
Soy sauce is a popular base to build your dipping sauce. I use a naturally brewed 
light soy sauce. It is lighter in color, thinner, and saltier than regular soy sauce. Light is soy sauce’s first press, likened to extra-virgin olive oil, where you get the purest flavor. Feel free to substitute the soy sauce you prefer. These sauce variations work with all hot pot-styles.
FOR SAVORY SOY DIPPING SAUCE
1 cup light soy sauce
2 tablespoons sliced scallions, both white 
and green parts
1 tablespoon sesame oil or spicy oil1 tablespoon chopped fresh cilantro1 to 2 garlic cloves, mincedDashes ground white pepper
FOR TANGY SOY DIPPING SAUCE 
/parenleft.caseMAKES ABOUT 1/one.num⁄/four.denom CUPS/parenright.case
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup light soy sauce/one.num⁄/two.denom cup rice vinegar2 tablespoons sesame oil1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon toasted sesame seedsRed pepper chile flakes (optional)FOR PIQUANT SOY DIPPING SAUCE
1 cup light soy sauce1 tablespoon prepared wasabi, hot 
mustard, or Dijon mustard
To make the dipping sauces: In small 
bowls, mix all the ingredients for each sauce. Serve in individual bowls for dip-ping. Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Lao Gan Ma’s Chili 
Crisp is a chunky, spicy oil touted in New 
York Times Magazine as a must-have condiment even for ice cream! It contains oil, chiles, onion, black beans, Sichuan peppercorns, and seasonings and is a perfect spicy oil to use in the Savory Soy Dipping Sauce./five.lf/one.lf Sauces and Homemade IngredientsAROMATIC SCALLION AND GINGER OIL
45 MINUTES OR LESS, ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, CHINESE, EASY, MEATLESS
MAKES /one.num⁄/two.denom CUP /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  2 minutes
This is a classic Chinese oil best served alongside poached or steamed chicken. It 
also goes well with fish. Enliven your hot pot dipping sauce with a spoonful of this aromatic oil that will be sure to please.
4 scallions, both white 
and green parts, 
finely chopped
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch knob ginger, 
peeled and minced
Dash salt
Dash ground white pepper/one.num⁄/three.denom cup neutral cooking oil/one.lf.In a small bowl, combine the scallions, ginger, salt, 
and pepper.
/two.lf.In a small pot, heat the oil over high heat until smoking and carefully pour over the onion mix-ture. The oil will sizzle as it slightly cooks the ingredients.
/three.lf.Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
VARIATION:  Make this without ginger for aromatic 
scallion oil./five.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSILKY EGG AND SHACHA
BARBECUE SAUCE
45 MINUTES OR LESS, ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, CHINESE, EASY, TAIWANESE
MAKES /one.num⁄/two.denom CUP /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  2 minutes
This is a Taiwanese dipping-sauce favorite with shacha’s robust grilled smoky flavors 
and tastes delicious mixed with a raw egg. It partners well with beef and other sea-food. The raw egg tempers the heat and adds silkiness to the foods dipped in it. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration recommends using pasteurized eggs. Because this contains raw egg, it is best to make it right before serving.
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup shacha or sa 
cha barbecue sauce 
(Bullhead brand or Vegetarian label)
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup light soy sauce
1 to 2 garlic cloves, minced 
(optional)
4 large eggs (pasteurized)/one.lf.Mix the oil and solids of the shacha sauce to com-
bine into a paste.
/two.lf.In a bowl, combine the shacha, soy sauce, and garlic (if using). Mix well.
/three.lf.Divide the sauce into four dipping bowls. When ready to serve, crack 1 egg in each and mix to combine./five.lf/three.lf Sauces and Homemade IngredientsCREAMY SESAME DIPPING SAUCE
45 MINUTES OR LESS, ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, EASY, MEATLESS
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes
The nutty creaminess from sesame paste adds body and delicious flavor in com-
bination with savory soy sauce and tangy rice vinegar. If you have black vinegar, a fermented sweet and tangy vinegar from China’s Chinkiang, it is a wonderful com-plement to soy sauce and sesame. You can also use rice vinegar in its place. This is an ideal dip for lamb and beef and Japanese shabu-shabu.
/one.num⁄/three.denom cup tahini sesame paste 
or prepared Chinese 
sesame paste
3 tablespoons light 
soy sauce
2 tablespoons rice 
vinegar or Chinkiang black vinegar
2 tablespoons to /one.num⁄/four.denom cup 
cold water
1 teaspoon 
granulated sugar
Few dashes ground 
white pepper
1 tablespoon sesame oil
Chile oil, for finishingToasted sesame seeds, 
for garnish/one.lf.In a bowl, combine the sesame paste, soy sauce, 
vinegar, and 2 tablespoons of water. Mix well until blended, adding 1 tablespoon more of water at a time to get the right consistency.
/two.lf.Add the sugar and pepper. Finish with sesame oil, chile oil, and sesame seeds.
/three.lf.Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
SUBSTITUTION:  Use peanut butter instead of 
sesame paste.
VARIATION:  Add chopped garlic, scallions, and cilantro for 
even more flavor./five.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSWEET AND SOUR CHILE SAUCE
45 MINUTES OR LESS, EASY, MEATLESS, SPICY
MAKES ABOUT 1 /three.num⁄/four.denom CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  5 minutes
This is a well-balanced sweet, sour, and spicy dipping sauce that lends ingredients 
another flavor dimension and gives them a glazed texture. Feel free to omit the chiles if you want it non-spicy.
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup ketchup
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup white or rice vinegar/one.num⁄/three.denom to /one.num⁄/two.denom cup 
granulated sugar
2 teaspoons light 
soy sauce
2 teaspoons neutral 
cooking oil
1 to 2 garlic cloves, minced1 to 2 red chiles, seeded 
and sliced
3 tablespoons cold water2 tablespoons cornstarch/one.lf.In a small bowl, combine the ketchup, vinegar, 
sugar, and soy sauce and whisk well.
/two.lf.In a saucepan, heat the oil, garlic, and chiles over medium heat and let sizzle for 20 seconds.
/three.lf.Stir in the sauce mixture and bring to a low boil.
/four.lf.In a small bowl, blend the water and cornstarch and stir into the sauce. Simmer for 1 minute, or until thickened. Let cool before serving.
/five.lf.Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
VARIATION:  Reduce the sugar to /one.num⁄/four.denom cup and add 1 cup of 
fresh or canned (well-drained) crushed pineapple, sau-
téed for 30 seconds with the sauce before adding the cornstarch mixture./five.lf/five.lf Sauces and Homemade IngredientsSEASONED FISH SAUCE 
(NUOC MAM CHAM)
45 MINUTES OR LESS, EASY, SEAFOOD, THAI, VIETNAMESE
MAKES ABOUT /three.num⁄/four.denom CUP /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes
Pure fish sauce, known as nuoc mam in Vietnam, nam pla in Thailand, or simply as 
liquid gold, is made from salted fermented fish and has a very pungent salty flavor. This is the soy sauce equivalent in Southeast Asian cuisines. Seasoned with sugar and vinegar or lime juice, it captures the region’s classic flavor combination of sweet, salty, and sour. My Vietnamese family-in-law serves it as a dip for lettuce leaves wrapped in hot-pot ingredients cooked in Tangy and Sweet Broth (Bò Nhúng Dấm; page 102).
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup granulated sugar
/one.num⁄/three.denom cup boiling water2 tablespoons fish sauce 
(I like both Squid and 
Three Crabs brands)
2 tablespoons white 
vinegar or freshly squeezed lime juice
1 to 2 garlic cloves, minced
Sambal oelek or chopped 
red chiles/one.lf.In a small bowl, dissolve the sugar in the boil-
ing water.
/two.lf.Mix in the fish sauce and vinegar and leave to cool.
/three.lf.Add the garlic and season with sambal oelek to taste.
/four.lf.Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days./five.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSIMPLE SUKIYAKI SAUCE (WARISHITA)
45 MINUTES OR LESS, EASY, JAPANESE, MEATLESS
MAKES 2 CUPS /bar.case PREP TIME:  5 minutes
This light sauce, warishita, is used for sukiyaki hot pot. Its primary ingredient is mirin, 
which is a sweet cooking wine and an essential Japanese condiment. The name suki-yaki has taken a myriad of styles in Asia. In Laos, hot pot is also called sukiyaki and in Thailand suki, but the flavoring is different, and the broth is meant to be sipped. In Japan, this sweet and savory sauce is intended to flavor the ingredients quickly cooked in it, but it is not used like a soup broth.
1 cup mirin
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup light soy sauce or 
Japanese shoyu
/one.num⁄/three.denom cup water2 tablespoons Japanese 
cooking sake or Chinese 
cooking wine
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugar/one.lf.In a medium saucepan, combine the mirin, soy 
sauce, water, sake, and sugar and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to low and simmer for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from the heat and let cool before serving.
/two.lf.Refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 5 days or freeze for up to a month.
SUBSTITUTION:  Instead of mirin, use 1 cup of Chinese 
cooking wine or rice vinegar with 5 tablespoons of 
sugar added./five.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersPORK AND SHRIMP WONTONS
ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, CHINESE, MEAT, SEAFOOD
MAKES 70 WONTONS /bar.case PREP TIME:  1 hour |  COOK TIME:  3 to 4 minutes
Wonton varieties are easy to find in Asian supermarkets. If you can’t find them or 
want to try making your own, I am happy to share this recipe I grew up cooking with my family. The recipe makes a  lot of wontons, so serve up some to eat right away 
and freeze the remainder (see page 61 for freezing instructions). You can find wonton wrappers in an Asian supermarket in the refrigerated aisle.
1 pound lean ground pork, 
chicken, or turkey
2 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon Chinese 
cooking wine or dry 
sherry (optional)
2 teaspoons chicken broth 
mix powder
2 teaspoons light 
soy sauce
1 teaspoon salt
/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon sesame oil/one.num⁄/eight.denom teaspoon ground 
white pepper
14 ounces shrimp, shelled, 
cleaned, rinsed, and 
finely chopped
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 (7.5-ounce) package 
wonton wrappers 
(about 70)/one.lf.In a large bowl, combine the pork and water and 
mix with a fork for about 2 minutes (for a smoother texture).
/two.lf.Add the cooking wine (if using), broth powder, soy sauce, salt, sesame oil, and pepper. Stir in the shrimp to incorporate. Mix in the cornstarch and stir until fully combined.
/three.lf.Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour for the fla-vors to blend.
/four.lf.Place a little less than 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of a wonton wrapper. Moisten the edges of the wrapper with a bit of water, gather up the sides to encase the filling in a ball, and pinch and twist the top to seal. Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
/five.lf.Cook immediately (for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh—they are ready when they float to the surface) or freeze. Do not refrigerate or they will get moist and stick to the plate./five.lf/nine.lf Sauces and Homemade IngredientsBASIC DUMPLING DOUGH (FOR SOUPS)
45 MINUTES OR LESS, EASY, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEATLESS,
MAKES 24 /parenleft.case3/hyphen.caseINCH/parenright.case WRAPPERS /bar.case PREP TIME:  30 minutes
Dumplings are a highlight in enjoying hot pot. If you want to try making your own, it is 
best to make your own dumpling wrappers, too. Convenient store-bought dumpling wrappers are best for steaming or panfrying. For boiling, thin wonton wrappers are typically used. Dumplings for soups, such as the ones made in this recipe, are opaque and cook up thicker with a nice chewy texture. While many dough recipes require at least 30 minutes to rest, this one can be rolled right away.
1 cup all-purpose flour
/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon salt/one.num⁄/three.denom cup boiling water/one.lf.In a medium bowl, mix the flour and salt with a 
wooden spoon. Slowly pour in the boiling water while stirring. The mixture will turn into dry dough pieces.
/two.lf.Dust a flat surface with flour. Using your hand, gather the dough and knead for about 5 minutes, until smooth. Roll into a 1-inch log, then cut in half. Place the logs side by side and cut into half again. Place the four pieces side by side and cut each into six pieces.
/three.lf.Using a rolling pin (a small one works best), roll each dough piece into a 3-inch-wide round. Dust a little flour in between wrappers to prevent stick-ing. You can make this ahead overnight, and store wrapped with plastic./six.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersBOK CHOY, SHIITAKE, AND 
CHIVE DUMPLINGS
ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, CHINESE, MEATLESS
MAKES 24 DUMPLINGS /bar.case PREP TIME:  1 hour, plus 4 hours for soaking 
COOK TIME:  3 to 5 minutes
Vegetable dumplings are always lovely with hot pot. For soup, ones in the market 
are usually Korean style, filled with kimchi, chives, napa cabbage, and sometimes sweet potato noodles. This recipe is Chinese inspired with my favorite three veg-etable ingredients, which match deliciously with my homemade chewy dumpling wrapper. If I will be stir-frying the mushrooms, I like to add a bit of sugar to the mushroom-soaking liquid to impart sweetness for a deeper flavor.
6 medium dried whole 
shiitake mushrooms
1 cup warm water
/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon 
granulated sugar
1 tablespoon neutral 
cooking oil
1 to 2 garlic cloves, minced1 handful Asian chives, 
finely chopped, or 
scallions, green parts only
5 baby bok choy, 
finely chopped
1 teaspoon light soy sauce
SaltGround white pepper1 teaspoon cornstarch/one.lf.In a small bowl, soak the shiitake mushrooms in the 
warm water mixed with the sugar for 4 hours. Remove the mushrooms from the soaking water, reserving the water and straining out any debris. Rinse the mush-room gills of any dirt and squeeze well. Discard the stems and finely chop the mushrooms.
/two.lf.In a skillet, heat the oil over medium-high heat and stir-fry the mushrooms and garlic for 1 minute, until fragrant. Add the chives, then bok choy and stir-fry for about 1 minute. Season with 1 tablespoon of mushroom-soaking liquid, the soy sauce, salt, and pepper. Scatter the cornstarch and mix well to firm up. Let cool completely for about 15 minutes.
continued >>/six.lf/one.lf Sauces and Homemade Ingredients24 Basic Dumpling Dough 
(page 59) wrappers or 
store-bought dumpling wrappers/three.lf.Assemble the dumplings right before cooking. Place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of a wrapper. Wet half the wrapper rim with water, then fold the wrapper over so that the dry edge meets the wet one. Press or pleat along the seam to seal tightly. Repeat to make all the dumplings.
/four.lf.Cook immediately (for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh—they are ready when they float to the surface) or freeze. Do not refrigerate, or they will get moist and stick together and to the plate.
PREP TIP:  To freeze, lay the dumplings on a baking sheet 
and freeze for 1 hour to prevent sticking. Place plastic 
wrap on the bottom of a container. Lay the uncooked dumplings in a single layer, then cover with plastic wrap to add a second layer. Repeat with a final layer of wrap over the top before sealing with a lid. Freeze for up to 2 months./six.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersMEAT AND VEGETABLE DUMPLINGS
ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, CHINESE, MEAT
MAKES 24 DUMPLINGS /bar.case PREP TIME:  1 hour |  COOK TIME:  3 to 5 minutes
Pork-and-chive is the most popular Chinese dumpling filling. However, in this recipe 
you can interchange another white meat such as chicken or turkey and use leeks or napa cabbage if you prefer a mellow accompaniment, as chives have a strong flavor. You can always tell when dumplings are cooked—they float to the surface.
8 ounces lean ground 
meat (pork, chicken, 
or turkey)
1 tablespoon water
/one.num⁄/two.denom cup finely chopped Asian 
chives, leeks (white parts 
only), or napa cabbage (/one.num⁄/four.denom small cabbage, leaves blanched, squeezed dry)
2 teaspoons light 
soy sauce
/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon salt
2 dashes ground 
white pepper
1 teaspoon sesame oil1 teaspoon cornstarch24 Basic Dumpling Dough 
(page 59) wrappers or 
store-bought dumpling wrappers/one.lf.In a medium bowl, combine the meat and water. Mix 
with a fork for about 2 minutes (for a smoother meat texture). Add the chives, soy sauce, salt, and pepper; then add the oil and cornstarch. Incorporate well.
/two.lf.Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour for the fla-vors to blend.
/three.lf.Assemble the dumplings right before cooking. Place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of a wrapper. Wet half the wrapper rim with water, then fold the wrapper over so that the dry edge meets the wet one. Press or pleat along the seam to seal tightly. Repeat to make all the dumplings.
/four.lf.Cook immediately (for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh—they are ready when they float to the surface) or freeze (see page 61). Do not refrigerate or they will get moist and stick together and to the plate./six.lf/three.lf Sauces and Homemade IngredientsSICHUAN SPICY MA LA MARINATED FISH
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHINESE, EASY, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, SEAFOOD, SPICY
SERVES 4 TO 6 /bar.case  PREP TIME:  30 minutes |  COOK TIME:  1 to 2 minutes
The wonder of this popular casserole dish of white fish submerged in ma la tang
(soup) is how delicate the flesh remains; not overly spicy despite being bathed in the oily sea of red hot chiles and scattered with tongue-numbing peppercorns. The best fish to use are mild-tasting white ones with lean flesh. Because they are delicate, it is best to cook them in a ladle basket. If you like to serve this in the Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth (page 35), use the non-spicy fish marinade recipe. Or give it the complete 
spicy treatment and serve cooked in milder broths.
FOR SPICY FISH MARINADE
1 tablespoon neutral cooking oil
1 tablespoon Sichuan hot bean sauce 
(doubanjiang or Chinese chile 
bean paste)
4 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped
/one.num⁄/two.denom tablespoon Sichuan peppercorns1 egg white, egg yolk reserved (if 
pasteurized, add to your dipping sauce)
SaltGround white pepper2 teaspoons Chinese cooking wine1 tablespoon cornstarch1 pound white firm basa fish fillet 
(or cod, snapper, sole), cut into 
2 bite-size piecesFOR FISH MARINADE
1 egg white, egg yolk reserved (if 
pasteurized, add to your dipping sauce)
Salt
Ground white pepper2 teaspoons Chinese cooking wine1 tablespoon cornstarch
/one.lf.To make either marinade: In a 
medium bowl, mix all the ingredi-ents of your marinade choice; toss well with the fish pieces. Set aside to marinate for 20 minutes to 1 hour in the refrigerator.
/two.lf.Remove the peppercorns from the fish before cooking./six.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersHOMEMADE MEATBALLS
45 MINUTES OR LESS, ALL/hyphen.casePURPOSE, EASY
MAKES ABOUT 20 MEATBALLS /bar.case PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  3 minutes
All kinds of meatballs and seafood balls are available at Asian supermarkets to 
choose from for your favorite hot pot; however, if for some reason they are difficult to find or you want to try your hand at making them yourself, they are really a cinch to do. The key is their characteristic springiness. The longer you stir, the bouncier and lighter the texture. For a heat kick, try the delicious spicy variation with ground chile and cumin.
1 pound lean ground meat 
(pork, chicken, turkey, 
beef, or lamb)
2 tablespoons cold water
2 teaspoons light 
soy sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil2 teaspoons cornstarch/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon granulated 
garlic salt or regular salt
/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoon ground 
white pepper/one.lf.In a medium bowl, combine the meat and water. 
Using a fork or a pair of chopsticks, rake the meat back and forth while turning the bowl for about 5 minutes until sticky (this gives the meatballs a smooth, springy texture).
/two.lf.Add the soy sauce, sesame oil, cornstarch, garlic salt, and pepper and continue to mix for 2 minutes more.
/three.lf.The traditional Chinese way to shape meatballs is to grab a small handful of the meatball paste. Squeeze the mixture into a ball by tightening your fist; the paste will come out through the “hole” made by your thumb and forefinger (about 1½ tablespoons). Use a teaspoon in your other hand to scoop and shape the ball. Place onto a plate. Repeat with the remaining meat mixture. Alterna-tively, you could roll the paste between wet palms to shape the meatballs./six.lf/five.lf Sauces and Homemade Ingredients/four.lf.Cover and refrigerate for up to overnight before 
serving or freeze for up to 2 months.
VARIATION:  To make a spicy version, add 1 to 1/one.num⁄/two.denom teaspoons 
each of ground chile pepper and ground cumin to the meat 
mixture (works best with beef or lamb). Test one meatball by cooking in boiling water and adjust the seasoning if required.
PREP TIP:  To freeze, lay the meatballs on a baking sheet 
and freeze for 1 hour to prevent sticking. Place them in a container or reusable plastic bag. Freeze for up to 2 months.TOM YUM VEGETABLE HOT POT, PAGE 82/six.lf/seven.lfCHAPTER FIVE
Vegetable and 
Tofu Hot Pots
MARVELOUS MUSHROOM HOT POT 68
SPICY MA LA MIXED VEGETABLE HOT POT 70
KIMCHI AND TOFU CHIGAE HOT POT 72
SPICY RICE CAKE AND DUMPLING HOT POT 74
TOFU MISO HOT POT 76
VEGETABLE SUKIYAKI 78
HEARTY ROOT VEGETABLE HOT POT 80
TOM YUM VEGETABLE HOT POT 82/six.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersMARVELOUS MUSHROOM HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHINESE, MEATLESS, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Mushroom lovers, this is the hot pot for you! It’s inspired by Yunnan, China’s south-
west mountainous region, home to a vast diversity of wild mushrooms (90 percent of China’s mushrooms grow here). With a fragrant, earthy mixed mushroom broth, it is best enjoyed with a variety of mushrooms to further develop its rich umami flavors. Serve with wheat gluten and noodles to absorb the marvelous flavors and fresh vegetables to round it all out.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Fragrant Mixed Mushroom Broth 
(page 33)
1 batch Tangy or Savory Soy Dipping 
Sauce (page 50)
1 batch Aromatic Scallion and Ginger Oil 
(page 51)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (10.5-ounce) package or can seitan, 
drained if canned
1 (12-ounce) lotus root, peeled and cut into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch rounds
8 ounces oyster mushrooms, halved 
if large
8 ounces king oyster mushrooms, cut 
lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
2 cups straw mushrooms, drained and 
rinsed if canned
2 cups button mushrooms, halved
/one.num⁄/two.denom medium head broccoli or cauliflower, cut 
into 2-inch florets
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
4 bundles mung bean noodles/six.lf/nine.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook seitan for 1 to 2 minutes and lotus root slices, mushrooms, broccoli, bok choy, bamboo shoots, and noodles (loosen with a chop-stick in the broth) for 1 minute. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce and a dollop of scallion-ginger oil.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
VARIATION:  Choose your favorite assortment of fresh or 
dried mushrooms to enjoy.
Add a small dollop of Lao Gan Ma’s Chili Crisp, soy sauce, 
or suggested dipping sauces to enliven foods.
/seven.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSPICY MA LA MIXED 
VEGETABLE HOT POT
CHINESE, MEATLESS, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  3 hours 15 minutes (includes soaking) |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
The ma la or ma lat flavor combining Sichuan chiles and peppercorns produces an 
appetite-inducing broth for dumplings and vegetables. Cool the spicy sensation lingering on your palate by swishing ingredients in my creamy sesame dip before eating. A bowl of hearty udon noodles holds up to this bold broth for a satisfying finish to your meal.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth 
(page 35)
24 Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings (page 60)
1 batch Creamy Sesame Dipping Sauce 
(page 53)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (5-ounce) package dried bean curd (sold 
in long strips), broken into 3-inch pieces 
and soaked in water to cover for 3 hours
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs
2 (3.5-ounce) packages shimeji 
mushrooms, trimmed and separated 
into small bundles
1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
4 celery stalks, peeled and sliced on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
/one.num⁄/four.denom head small napa cabbage, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces
8 green leaf lettuce leaves, cut into 
3-inch pieces
5 (8.8-ounce) packages frozen udon or 
thick wheat noodles, cooked al dente and drained/seven.lf/one.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook dumplings for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); hydrated bean curd pieces for 2 minutes; tofu puffs, shimeji mushrooms, bamboo shoots, celery, and napa cab-bage for 1 to 2 minutes until tender; and lettuce for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
/five.lf.Serve udon noodles in a bit of broth to finish the meal.PAIRING TIP:  Counter 
the spiciness with a tall 
glass of icy iced tea. For a popular drink pairing with Chinese hot pot, look for Wong Lo Kat or Jia Duo Bao herbal teas sold in bright red cans in the beverage section of Asian supermarkets. Herbal tea is a sweet, noncaffeinated drink made with traditional medicinal ingredients dating from the Qing dynasty. It brings down the body’s internal heat and refreshes, especially during a spicy meal./seven.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersKIMCHI AND TOFU CHIGAE HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, KOREAN, MEATLESS, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Kimchi is a staple of Korean cuisine. It is a fermented superfood that is rich in vita-
mins A and B and minerals like calcium and iron, as well as immune-boosting and high in antioxidants with gut-healthy bacteria. The most common type is napa cab-bage with salted shrimp or fish sauce, which aid in fermentation. Nowadays there are more vegan options in the market. Some Korean food companies also make vegan versions. Healthy and delicious, it imparts tangy and spicy flavors in this tradi-tional Korean soybean stew (chigae) base with tofu and vegetables.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Soybean Broth (page 39)
1 batch Savory Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
2 (10.6-ounce) jars mat kimchi (vegetarian 
or vegan)
1 (16-ounce) package soft tofu or medium 
tofu, drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 (10-ounce) package deep-fried 
tofu pieces
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
2 medium zucchini, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices8 leaves green leafy lettuce, cut into 
3-inch pieces
1 (7-ounce) package enoki mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
3 cups bean sprouts
Fresh red or green chile peppers, thinly 
sliced on an angle, for garnish/seven.lf/three.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil. 
Stir in the kimchi and its juices. Return to a boil and lower the heat to medium.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook the assorted tofu, bok choy, and zucchini for 1 to 2 minutes, until tender and cooked through. Cook lettuce, enoki mush-rooms, and bean sprouts for 30 seconds.
/three.lf.Top with chile peppers. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/four.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce.
/five.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
VARIATION:  Combine soft, medium, or firm tofu for a vari-
ety of textures.
/seven.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSPICY RICE CAKE AND 
DUMPLING HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, KOREAN, MEATLESS, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Spicy rice cakes called tteokbokki are a popular street food in Korea. As the cylindri-
cal rice cakes simmer in a spicy sauce, they soften and become addictively chewy. The key ingredient is gochujang—a fermented chile paste made with sticky rice paste. Look for it in Asian supermarkets in a red tub. Paired with dumplings, this is a hearty and delicious hot pot rounded out with assorted vegetables. Omit the gochujang for a non-spicy version.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Soybean Broth (page 39)
24 Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings (page 60)
1 batch Tangy Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup to /one.num⁄/two.denom cup gochujang paste (optional)1 (10.5-ounce) package rice cakes, 
thawed if frozen and separated into 
individual pieces
2 medium carrots, peeled and sliced on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
2 leeks, white parts only, sliced on an angle 
into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
2 bundles watercress, loosened and 
halved if pieces are large
/one.num⁄/four.denom head small napa cabbage, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces
2 (3.5-ounce) packages shimeji 
mushrooms, trimmed and separated into small bundles
3 cups spinach/seven.lf/five.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil. 
Stir in the gochujang paste (if using) and cook until dissolved; lower the heat to medium.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook rice cakes for 5 to 7 minutes or until plump and soft; dumplings for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); carrots and leeks for 2 minutes; and watercress, napa cabbage, and mushrooms for 1 to 2 minutes until tender and cooked through. Cook spinach for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.SUBSTITUTION:  Rice 
cakes are sold fresh and 
frozen, shaped in cylin-ders or flat ovals. Instead of rice cakes, use instant or fresh/frozen ramen noodles cooked according to package instructions. If you combine ramen and tteokbokki, you will create the popular Korean twist rabokki!/seven.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersTOFU MISO HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, JAPANESE, MEATLESS
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Soothing miso soup is a starter to a Japanese meal, but is used here as a hot-pot 
broth that lends its mellow tasty comfort throughout the meal. A lighter-fare hot pot, this assortment of tofu, mushrooms, and vegetables is used in numerous varieties and combinations to make miso soup. Healthy buckwheat soba noodles are the per-fect light finish.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Miso Broth (omit the garlic) 
(page 39)
1 batch Piquant Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (14-ounce) package soba noodles
1 (10-ounce) daikon, peeled and cut into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch moons
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup dried cut wakame seaweed4 cups spinach1 (7-ounce) package enoki mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
Nori shreds, for garnish
Scallions, sliced, both white and green 
parts, for garnish/seven.lf/seven.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.Cook the soba noodles until al dente according to 
package instructions. Swirl the noodles with chop-sticks to separate them. Remove from the heat, transfer to a colander, and rinse thoroughly in run-ning cold water to remove excess starch. Drain well.
/two.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/three.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook daikon for 2 minutes; tofu,/uni00A0fried tofu, and bamboo shoots for 1 to 2 minutes; seaweed for 1 minute; and spinach and mushrooms for 30 seconds. Cooked soba noodles just need to be warmed through. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/four.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce. Add nori shreds and scallions to accent tofu and noodles.
/five.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat./seven.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersVEGETABLE SUKIYAKI
45 MINUTES OR LESS, JAPANESE, MEATLESS
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
It’s all about that stimulating sweet and savory sauce! Start off by sautéing onions 
and leeks until aromatic. Using cooking chopsticks, cook the vegetables in the cara-melizing sauce that adds a sweet glaze, making every bite enjoyable! It’s so flavorful, no dipping sauce is required. Tofu and konnyaku add heartiness and round out the fresh produce hot pot. Steamed rice often accompanies sukiyaki and is great served on the side.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Simple Sukiyaki Sauce (page 56)
HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
2 tablespoons neutral cooking oil, divided
1 large onion, cut into /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch slices2 leeks, white parts only, sliced on an angle 
into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
2 bundles watercress, loosened and 
halved if pieces are large
1 (16-ounce) package medium or firm tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles, drained and rinsed/one.num⁄/two.denom small (1 pound) kabocha squash, peeled, 
cut into /three.num⁄/four.denom-inch segments, then halved
/one.num⁄/four.denom head small napa cabbage, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces
8 ounces king oyster mushrooms, cut 
lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
1 (3.5-ounce) package shimeji mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
Ground cayenne pepper, for garnish
Sesame seeds, for garnish/seven.lf/nine.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot or large frying pan, heat 
1 tablespoon of oil over medium-high heat. Add the onions and leeks and stir-fry 2 minutes until soft. Move them to one side of the pan.
/two.lf.Add ½ cup of sukiyaki sauce. When it comes to a boil, lower the heat to medium.
/three.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook watercress for 2 minutes and tofu, bamboo shoots, konnyaku, kabocha squash, napa cabbage, and mushrooms for 1 to 2 minutes. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/four.lf.Sprinkle cayenne and sesame seeds on top before eating.
/five.lf.Replenish the sauce as needed as you continue to cook and eat. Serve with steamed rice (if using)./eight.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersHEARTY ROOT VEGETABLE HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, MEATLESS, VIETNAMESE
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Vegetables get a tangy and sweet treatment in this irresistible appetite-whetting 
broth. Meant to cook and flavor foods, not to serve as a drinking soup, it gets addi-tional layers of tastes with any of the suggested dipping sauces. If you can get fresh sweet pineapples, they will add flavor to the broth as well as absorb its tartness, making it an ideal ingredient to enjoy in this unique hot pot.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Tangy and Sweet Broth (Bò Nhúng 
Dấm) (page 43)
1 batch Savory or Piquant Soy Dipping 
Sauce (page 50)
1 batch Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce 
(page 54)INGREDIENTS
1 (6-ounce) daikon, peeled, halved 
lengthwise, and cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
8 ounces king oyster mushrooms, sliced 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch lengthwise
1 (10.5-ounce) package or can seitan, 
drained if canned
1 (1-pound) kabocha squash, peeled, cut 
into /three.num⁄/four.denom-inch segments, then halved
1 (12-ounce) lotus root, peeled and cut into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch rounds
2 medium carrots, peeled and sliced on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
/one.num⁄/two.denom medium broccoli or cauliflower, cut into 
2-inch florets
1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
2 cups fresh or canned pineapple chunks
Steamed jasmine rice, for serving/eight.lf/one.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring 10 to 12 cups of broth to a 
rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook daikon for 2 minutes; mushrooms, seitan, and squash for 1 to 2 minutes; lotus root slices, carrots, broccoli, and bamboo shoots for 1 minute; and pineapple chunks for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce and eat alongside rice.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
SUBSTITUTION:  Replace the kabocha with 2 peeled and 
sliced sweet potatoes./eight.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersTOM YUM VEGETABLE HOT POT
GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MEATLESS, THAI
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  3 hours 15 minutes (includes soaking) |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
The flavor of tom yum is delightfully lively and comforting at the same time. The 
aromatics and spicy tanginess enliven vegetables, and the broth gets more fla-vorful as you cook. The sesame dip gives a layer of nutty creaminess to food while the sweet-and-sour dip extends these flavor notes with a glazed texture. Make sure to enjoy some with rice noodles to complete the meal. Choose your own taste adventure!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Hot-and-Sour Tom Yum Broth 
(page 46)
1 batch Creamy Sesame Dipping Sauce 
(page 53) or Sweet and Sour Chile 
Sauce (page 54)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
4 medium tomatoes, cut into 8 wedges
1 (5-ounce) package dried bean curd (sold 
in long strips), broken into 3-inch pieces 
and soaked in water to cover for 3 hours
2 (10.5-ounce) packages or cans seitan, 
drained if canned
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom cups bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
1 pound oyster mushrooms, chopped 
if large
2 cups straw mushrooms, drained and 
rinsed if canned, or button mushrooms
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
1 (1-pound) package rice noodles, cooked 
according to package instructions and drained
Handful Thai basil leaves/eight.lf/three.lf Vegetable and Tofu Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook tomatoes and hydrated bean curd pieces for 2 minutes, and seitan, bamboo shoot slices, mushrooms, and bok choy for 1 to 2 minutes. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times. Noodles just need to be warmed through.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce. Enjoy with some broth and basil.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
SICHUAN MA LA  FISH HOT POT, PAGE 110/eight.lf/five.lfCHAPTER SIX
Meat and Seafood 
Hot Pots
“EVERYTHING-IN-ONE” HOT POT 86
CHANKO NABE SUMO WRESTLER 
HOT POT 88
MALAYSIAN CURRY LAKSA
CHICKEN HOT POT 90
LAOTIAN PORK SUKIYAKI 92
THAI COCONUT CURRY PORK 
HOT POT 94
KOREAN SPICY ARMY STEW 
HOT POT 96
TAIWANESE SHACHA BARBECUE 
BEEF SHABU-SHABU 98
JAPANESE BEEF SUKIYAKI 100
BÒ NHÚNG DẤ M BEEF HOT POT 102VIETNAMESE BEEF PHO 
HOT POT 104
SPICY MONGOLIAN LAMB 
HOT POT 106
LAMB SHABU-SHABU 108
SICHUAN MA LA FISH HOT POT 110
JAPANESE ODEN (FISH CAKE STEW) 
HOT POT 112
FILIPINO FISH SINIGANG 
HOT POT 114
YA-HON CAMBODIAN SEAFOOD 
HOT POT 116
THAI SPICY SEAFOOD MEDLEY 
SUKI 118/eight.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for Beginners“EVERYTHING-IN-ONE” HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHICKEN, CHINESE, SEAFOOD
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
This is my go-to style for hot pot that uses whatever my family or I feel like eating at 
that moment, and it’s a great way to use up any leftover vegetables in my fridge. We like to have a balanced mix of assorted favorite proteins and flavors, including sea-food, produce, mushrooms, and dumplings. Our tradition to finish the meal is always with a bowl of fresh rice noodles in the rich and developed broth, slurping and sip-ping to our hearts’ content.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch All-Purpose Simple Chicken Broth 
(page 32)
12 Pork and Shrimp Wontons (page 58) or 
wontons of choice
1 batch Tangy Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds boneless chicken thighs or 
breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 pound large shrimp
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles, drained and rinsed
2 bundles watercress, loosened and 
halved if pieces are large
/one.num⁄/four.denom head small napa cabbage, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces
1 (7-ounce) package enoki mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
1 pound fresh or dried rice noodles, 
blanched if fresh and cooked according to package instructions if dried, and drained/eight.lf/seven.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook wontons for about 5 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface). Cook chicken and shrimp for 2 minutes or until cooked through; tofu, tofu puffs, konnyaku, watercress, and napa cabbage for 1 to 2 minutes; and mushrooms for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce. Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with the broth.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.SUBSTITUTION:  Combine 
your favorites from every 
category and try some-thing new! I love fish balls in this, too. These would work great in Pork Bone Broth (page 34) or Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth (page 35). Hot-pot broth and ingredients are so versatile that way!/eight.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersCHANKO NABE SUMO 
WRESTLER HOT POT
CHICKEN, JAPANESE
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  4 hours and 15 minutes (for soaking) |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
What do sumo wrestlers eat to get so strong and hardy? It’s a daily diet of chicken 
and tofu for the main part and lots of vegetables cooked in a nabe stew. Delicious and nutritious, it is the food that gives them sustained energy throughout the day. In the morning, they start with vigorous training, then a large bowl of nabe for lunch and a snooze. If this can promote endurance and energy for sumos, imagine what it can do for you!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch All-Purpose Simple Chicken Broth 
(page 32)
1 batch Homemade Meatballs (Chicken) 
(page 64)
1 batch Savory Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)
1 batch Aromatic Scallion and Ginger Oil 
(page 51)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds chicken wings, separated at the 
joints (tips removed if desired)
12 fresh or dried shiitake mushrooms, 
soaked in water to cover for 
4 hours, stemmed
1 (16-ounce) package medium or firm tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces king oyster mushrooms, cut 
lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
/one.num⁄/four.denom head small napa cabbage, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces
2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles, drained and rinsed
2 leeks, white parts only, sliced on an angle 
into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
5 (8.8-ounce) packages frozen udon or 
thick wheat noodles, cooked al dente and drained
4 large eggs/eight.lf/nine.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook meatballs for about 3 minutes for fresh and 5 minutes for frozen (they are ready when they float to the surface); chicken wings for 3 minutes; shiitake mushrooms for 2 minutes; tofu for 1 to 2 minutes; and king oyster mushrooms, napa cabbage, konnyaku, and leeks for 1 minute. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with dipping sauce with a dollop of scallion and ginger oil.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
/five.lf.Crack the eggs into the hot pot. For poached, let them simmer undisturbed for 3 to 5 minutes. Serve with broth and udon noodles to finish the meal.INGREDIENT TIP:  Freeze 
the chicken wing tips 
in a container to make chicken stock later.
PREP TIP:  For a nice 
presentation, bevel two cross incisions in an “X” on the center tops of whole shiitake mush-rooms by inserting the knife diagonally into them and removing the slivers./nine.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersMALAYSIAN CURRY LAKSA
CHICKEN HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHICKEN, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, MALAYSIAN
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Laksa is a tasty street noodle soup prepared with curry and coconut milk popular in 
Malaysia and Singapore. Heartiness and comfort come together with tender chicken, eggs, and an array of complementary vegetables in the rich aromatic broth. Look for the curry paste in an Asian supermarket.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Creamy Coconut Broth (page 47)
1 batch Savory or Tangy Soy Dipping 
Sauce (page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
4 lemongrass stalks, white part 
only, pounded
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup prepared Malaysian/laksa curry 
paste or Thai red curry paste
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds boneless chicken thighs or 
breasts, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs/one.num⁄/two.denom medium broccoli or cauliflower, cut into 
2-inch florets
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
2 cups straw mushrooms, drained and 
rinsed if using canned, or button 
mushrooms
12 quail eggs or 4 large eggs, boiled 
and peeled
4 cups bean sprouts
1 (10.5-ounce) package vermicelli, cooked 
according to package instructions 
and drained
Lime wedges, for garnish
Chopped cilantro, for garnish/nine.lf/one.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil 
and add the lemongrass and curry paste. Stir to dissolve and cook for 10 minutes.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook chicken for 2 minutes; fried tofu, broccoli, bok choy, and straw mush-rooms for 1 to 2 minutes; and quail eggs and bean sprouts for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with the broth. Splash with lime juice and add cilantro. Serve with the dipping sauce.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
SUBSTITUTION:  Instead of chicken, add shrimp and fried 
fish cakes for a seafood laksa.
/nine.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersLAOTIAN PORK SUKIYAKI
45 MINUTES OR LESS, LAOTIAN, PORK
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
It may share the same name as Japanese sukiyaki, but Laotian sukiyaki is really 
more like shabu-shabu: cooking in broth you can then drink. Here, it’s all about the dipping sauce. Traditionally prepared by cooking shallots, chiles, garlic, and dried shrimp mixed with fermented bean curd and peanuts, I’ve got an easier version. I combine robust shacha barbecue sauce that contains most of these ingredients with peanut butter for creaminess and peanuts for crunch. It tastes incredibly delicious without the extra effort!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Pork Bone Broth (page 34) or 
All-Purpose Simple Chicken Broth 
(page 32)
1 batch Homemade Meatballs (Pork) 
(page 64)
12 Meat and Vegetable Dumplings (Pork) 
(page 62)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 (3.5-ounce) package shimeji mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into small bundles
4 bundles mung bean noodles
4 celery stalks, peeled and sliced on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
1 pound thinly sliced pork (shoulder, butt, 
jowl, or belly)
4 cups spinach/one.num⁄/two.denom cup shacha or sa cha barbecue sauce 
(Bullhead brand or Vegetarian label)
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup crunchy peanut butter (or smooth 
peanut butter with chopped roasted 
peanuts)/nine.lf/three.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook meatballs and dumplings for about 5 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); tofu, mushrooms, and noodles for 1 to 2 minutes; celery for 1 minute; and pork and spinach for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce: Mix the oil and paste of the shacha sauce. In a small bowl, mix the shachasauce and peanut butter, thinned out with water, a teaspoon at a time for consistency.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
VARIATION:  It is also customary to crack an egg or two 
directly into the hot pot just before serving, cooking for 1 to 
2 minutes./nine.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersTHAI COCONUT CURRY PORK HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, PORK, THAI
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Creamy coconut curry dishes are popular in Thai cuisine and pack some heat. Home-
style versions are conveniently made with store-bought concentrated curry paste with green being the most spicy, then medium red and milder yellow, which tends to be sweet. Added to give more depth to tom yum broth, the coconut milk counters the spiciness, making it lovely for hot-pot ingredients.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
10 cups Hot-and-Sour Tom Yum Broth 
(page 46)
12 Meat and Vegetable Dumplings 
(Pork) (page 62) or store-bought pork 
dumplings
1 batch Savory Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
4 (13.5-ounce) cans full-fat coconut milk
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup prepared Thai red curry paste8 ounces mussels on the half shell or squid 
(optional)
1 (1-pound) kabocha squash, peeled, cut 
into /three.num⁄/four.denom-inch segments, then halved
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs8 ounces king oyster mushrooms, cut 
lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
1/one.num⁄/two.denom cups bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
1/one.num⁄/two.denom pounds thinly sliced pork (shoulder, 
butt, jowl, or belly)
3 cups bean sproutsThai basil leaves/nine.lf/five.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring 3 cans of coconut milk to a 
boil over medium-high heat.
/two.lf.Lower the heat to medium and add the red curry paste; stir to dissolve, cooking for 1 to 2 minutes until the oil of the coconut milk rises to the surface. Carefully add 9 cups of the broth and bring back to a rolling boil.
/three.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook the dumplings for about 5 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); the mussels and kabocha squash for 2 minutes; tofu and fried tofu for 1 to 2 minutes; king mushrooms and bamboo shoots for 1 minute; and pork slices and bean sprouts for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/four.lf.Noodles just need to be warmed through. Enjoy with some broth and basil. Serve with the dipping sauce.
/five.lf.Replenish the broth as needed with the remain-ing 1 cup of broth and can of coconut milk as you continue to cook and eat. If you need more broth, a kettle of boiling hot water will work./nine.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersKOREAN SPICY ARMY STEW HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, KOREAN, PORK, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Korean army stew or army base stew (budae jjigae) is one of the most popular 
hot-pot styles in Korea. It uses some out-of-the-ordinary ingredients such as Spam, hot dogs, and processed cheese. Interesting fact: soon after the Korean war (in the early 1950s), food was extremely scarce, so surplus processed foods from the US military bases were a great supplement for the Koreans, thus the creation of a Korean-American fusion stew. Savory, spicy, and delicious, the melted cheese gives the stew a slightly creamy dimension.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Pork Bone Broth (page 34) or 
All-Purpose Simple Chicken Broth 
(page 32)
1 batch Tangy Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 to 2 (10.6-ounce) jars mat kimchi
3 to 4 (3-ounce) packs of spicy instant 
ramen noodles (and the spicy seasoning 
packets)
2 (12-ounce) cans Spam, cut into 
bite-size pieces
8 hot dogs, cut into bite-size pieces
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
2 medium zucchini, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices8 ounces oyster mushrooms, chopped 
if large
1 (7-ounce) package enoki mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
4 slices processed cheese (such as Kraft 
American Singles)
Sliced scallions, both white and green 
parts, for garnish/nine.lf/seven.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil. 
Stir in the kimchi and its juices. Add 1 spicy season-ing packet. Stir, taste, and adjust the seasoning to your preferred spice level.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook ramen noodles for 2 minutes; Spam and hot dogs for 1 to 2 minutes until tender and cooked through; tofu, zucchini, and oyster mushrooms for 1 minute; and enoki mush-rooms for 30 seconds. Lay the cheese on top of the broth for 10 seconds and ladle into bowls to serve. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce and scallions.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.INGREDIENT TIP:  Two top 
brands of kimchi from 
Korea that are loaded with flavor are Chongga and Jongga.
SUBSTITUTION:  Instead 
of hot dogs and/or Spam, use 1/one.num⁄/two.denom pounds thinly sliced pork (shoulder, butt, jowl, or belly)./nine.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersTAIWANESE SHACHA BARBECUE 
BEEF SHABU-SHABU
BEEF, SPICY, TAIWANESE
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  3 hours and 15 minutes (includes soaking) |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Ingredients first cook in the robust savory broth, then its irresistible shacha flavor 
doubles as a dipping sauce with beaten egg. The developed simmering flavors are likened to a cookout barbecue but in a hot pot instead of on the grill: smoky, tasty, and incredibly satiating!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Easy Smoky Shacha Barbecue 
Broth (page 38)
1 batch Homemade Meatballs (Beef) 
(page 64) or 1 (16-ounce) package 
beef balls
1 batch Silky Egg and Shacha Barbecue 
Sauce (page 52)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (5-ounce) package dried bean curd (sold 
in long strips), broken into 3-inch pieces and soaked in water to cover for 3 hours
1 (16-ounce) package medium or firm tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces king oyster mushrooms, cut 
lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
2 bundles watercress, loosened and 
halved if pieces are large
8 leaves green leafy lettuce, cut into 
3-inch pieces
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds thinly sliced beef (combination 
of brisket, sirloin, top blade, or chuck)
1 (10.5-ounce) package vermicelli, cooked 
according to package instructions and drained/nine.lf/nine.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook the meatballs for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); hydrated bean curd pieces, tofu, mushrooms, and bamboo shoots for 1 to 2 minutes; watercress for 1 minute; and let-tuce greens and beef for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce. Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with some broth.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
SUBSTITUTION:  Replace beef with lamb or combine both 
for variety./one.lf/zero.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersJAPANESE BEEF SUKIYAKI
45 MINUTES OR LESS, BEEF, JAPANESE
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Japanese sukiyaki is all about the full-bodied sweet and savory sauce, as it cooks 
down into a caramelized glaze along with thin marbled beef slices. The beef fat adds to the delicious taste and tender mouthfeel. My first sukiyaki dinner was in Japan with my brother and sister-in-law nearly two decades ago. They used long chop-sticks to swish the meat in the simmering sauce, dipped into a beaten fresh egg before slurping it down. Just beautiful, and so luxurious!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Simple Sukiyaki Sauce (page 56)
HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
2 tablespoons neutral cooking oil, divided
1 large onion, cut into /one.num⁄/four.denom-inch slices2 leeks, white parts only, sliced on an angle 
into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
1 (7-ounce) package tofu fish cakes/one.num⁄/two.denom medium broccoli, cut into 2-inch florets1 (16-ounce) package medium or firm tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles, drained and rinsed1 (7-ounce) package enoki mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
2 pounds thinly sliced beef (combination of 
brisket, sirloin, top blade, or chuck)
4 large eggs (pasteurized), beaten into 
4 individual bowls for dipping
Cayenne pepper or sesame seeds, 
for garnish
Steamed rice (optional)/one.lf/zero.lf/one.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot or large frying pan, heat 
1 tablespoon of oil to medium-high heat. Add the onions and leeks and stir-fry for 2 minutes until soft. Move them to one side of the pan.
/two.lf.Add ½ cup of sukiyaki sauce. When it comes to a boil, bring the heat down to medium.
/three.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook frozen fish cakes for 3 minutes and fresh for 2 minutes; broccoli, tofu, bok choy, and konnyaku for 1 to 2 minutes; mushrooms for 1 minute; and beef slices for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/four.lf.Serve with raw egg. Sprinkle cayenne or sesame seeds on top before eating.
/five.lf.Replenish the sauce as needed as you continue to cook and eat. Serve with rice (if using).
VARIATION:  Instead of serving with raw egg as a dip, 
break an egg over the beef in the hot pot to cook to your 
desired doneness.
/one.lf/zero.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersBÒ NHÚNG DÂ´M BEEF HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, BEEF, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, VIETNAMESE
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Beef and vegetables get a tangy and sweet treatment in this irresistible 
appetite-whetting broth. My Vietnamese husband and family-in-law serve bò nhúng dấm in a traditional chafing dish cooked at the center of the table. Chopsticks are used to cook instead of ladles. The fun part is wrapping the cooked beef, noodles, accompanying vegetables and herbs in rice paper and into parcels, then dipping in fish sauce. All other hot-pot items are eaten on the side.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Tangy and Sweet Broth (Bò Nhúng 
Dấm) (page 43)
1 batch Seasoned Fish Sauce (Nuoc Mam 
Cham) (page 55)
INGREDIENTS
6 ounces squid tubes, cartilage removed 
and rinsed, or raw calamari rings 
(optional)
1 (6-ounce) daikon, peeled, halved 
lengthwise, and cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
12 fresh or dried shiitake mushrooms, 
soaked in water to cover for 4 hours, stemmed and halved if large
1 (12-ounce) lotus root, peeled and cut into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch rounds
/one.num⁄/four.denom head small napa cabbage, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces3 cups spinach
2 cups fresh or canned pineapple chunks12 quail eggs, boiled and peeled2 pounds thinly sliced beef (combination of 
brisket, sirloin, top blade, or chuck)
1 (10.5-ounce) package vermicelli, cooked 
according to package instructions 
and drained
Fresh red or green chile peppers, thinly 
sliced on an angle for garnish/one.lf/zero.lf/three.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.Slice the squid tubes open and score into a diamond 
pattern. Cut into 1½-inch strips.
/two.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring 10 to 12 cups of broth to a rolling boil.
/three.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook daikon and shiitake mushrooms for 2 minutes; lotus root slices and napa cabbage for 1 to 2 minutes; squid for 1 minute; and spinach, pineapples, quail eggs, and beef slices for 30 seconds. Top with chile peppers. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/four.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce or prepare the tradi-tional way in the Variation before dipping. Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with some broth.
/five.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.VARIATION:  To serve 
these in rice paper, 
prepare lettuce leaves, vermicelli, sliced cucum-bers, bean sprouts, fresh mint, Thai basil, cilan-tro, and 2-inch pieces of Asian chives. Soak rice paper sheets, one at a time as you use them, in warm water for 5 seconds. Remove and place a piece of leaf lettuce onto the lower half of the wet rice paper. Layer with other ingredi-ents. Fold up the bottom, then the sides and roll up and over to seal. Dip in the seasoned fish sauce./one.lf/zero.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersVIETNAMESE BEEF PHO HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, BEEF, GLUTEN/hyphen.caseFREE, VIETNAMESE
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
The iconic bowl of Vietnamese pho is hearty and beloved. It dawned on me during 
my travel in Vietnam how immensely pho was enjoyed, easily at every meal starting from the crack of dawn. A staple fuel normally eaten quickly to go about the day, how about we slow it down and enjoy it in small doses with company and conversa-tions? And thus emerges the laid-back style of pho hot pot!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Savory Pho Beef Broth (page 44)
½ batch Homemade Meatballs (Beef) 
(page 64) or 8-ounces beef balls (with 
tendon is ideal)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 pound boneless chicken thighs or breasts, 
cut into 1-inch pieces (optional)
1 (6-ounce) daikon, peeled, halved 
lengthwise, and cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds thinly sliced beef (combination 
of beef brisket, sirloin, top blade, 
or chuck)
3 cups bean sprouts
1 pound fresh rice noodles or packaged 
rice sticks, blanched if fresh and cooked 
according to package instructions if dried, and drained
Sliced scallions, for garnish
Chopped fresh cilantro, for garnish/one.lf/zero.lf/five.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook meatballs for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); chicken and daikon for 2 minutes; fried tofu and bok choy for 1 to 2 minutes; and beef slices and bean sprouts for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with the broth. Top with scallions and cilantro.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
PAIRING TIP:  This is popularly served with a mix of hoisin 
sauce and sriracha hot sauce for dipping./one.lf/zero.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSPICY MONGOLIAN LAMB HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, MONGOLIAN, LAMB, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
This traditional full-bodied broth goes well with the stronger taste of lamb in a nod to 
its Mongol origins. As it can get very spicy, the ideal ingredients are ones that are not absorbent. You will enjoy the ingredients better without needing to extinguish your palate between bites. Follow the broth recipe to create both a spicy and non-spicy version to enjoy in a split pot. Beef instead of lamb tastes delicious in here, too!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Spicy and Herbal Lamb Broth 
(page 36)
½ batch Homemade Meatballs (Lamb) 
(page 64) or 1 (8-ounce) or /one.num⁄/two.denom (16-ounce) 
package beef balls
1 batch Creamy Sesame Dipping Sauce 
(page 53)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (1-pound) kabocha squash, peeled, cut 
into /three.num⁄/four.denom-inch segments, then halved
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom cups bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
2 cups straw mushrooms, drained and 
rinsed if canned
/one.num⁄/two.denom medium head broccoli, cut into 
2-inch florets
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds boneless lamb, thinly sliced
1 (1-pound) package thick wheat 
noodles, cooked according to package 
instructions and drained/one.lf/zero.lf/seven.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook meatballs for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); squash for 2 minutes; tofu, bok choy, bamboo shoots, straw mushrooms, and broccoli for 1 minute; and lamb for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce. Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with the broth.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.SUBSTITUTION:  Use a 
prepared hot-pot broth 
mix such as Little Sheep Hot Pot in non-spicy and/or spicy flavors.
VARIATION:  This recipe 
is great with king oyster mushrooms added, cut lengthwise into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices./one.lf/zero.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersLAMB SHABU-SHABU
45 MINUTES OR LESS, JAPANESE, LAMB, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
In Hokkaido, Japan’s mountainous north, paper-thin lamb slices are enjoyed with 
a mellow broth alongside mushrooms and fresh vegetables dipped in a comple-mentary spicy sauce. Lamb meatballs add a dense and springy texture in lamb shabu-shabu, but they are not found in stores. Try making my homemade recipe on page 64, and prepare the spicy version for a heat kick to perk things up.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Dashi Broth (page 40)
1 batch Homemade Meatballs (Lamb) 
(page 64) or 1 (16-ounce) package 
beef balls
1 batch Piquant Soy Dipping Sauce (page 
50) or Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce (page 54)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
12 fresh or dried shiitake mushrooms, 
soaked in water to cover for 4 hours, stemmed and halved if large
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs
1 pound oyster mushrooms, chopped 
if large
2 leeks, green parts removed, sliced on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
8 leaves green leafy lettuce, cut into 
3-inch pieces
4 cups spinach1/one.num⁄/two.denom pounds thinly sliced lamb1 package fresh or frozen ramen, cooked 
according to package instructions 
and drained/one.lf/zero.lf/nine.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook meatballs for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); shiitake mushrooms and fried tofu for 2 minutes; oyster mushrooms and leeks for 1 minute; and lettuce, spinach, and lamb for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce. Noodles just need to be warmed through and enjoyed with the broth.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
SUBSTITUTION:  Thinly sliced beef or pork can be used 
instead of lamb./one.lf/one.lf/zero.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersSICHUAN MA LA FISH HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, CHINESE, SEAFOOD, SPICY
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
This popular Sichuan casserole dish prepared with delicate, mild-tasting white fish 
gently poaches until it’s moist and tender. The addictive ma la flavor is exquisite, and the fish texture is sublime! A swish in vinegar dip is the prime taming counterpoint to the spice-doused ingredients. Add a dollop of scallion and ginger oil that goes oh so well with fish. I personally love adding mung bean noodles to absorb the spicy fla-vors. Try that instead of wheat noodles if you like it spicy!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth 
(page 35)
1 batch Sichuan Spicy Ma La Marinated 
Fish (page 63)
1 batch Tangy Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)
1 batch Aromatic Scallion and Ginger Oil 
(page 51)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
1 (7-ounce) package tofu fish cakes or fried 
fish cakes
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
2 (3.5-ounce) packages shimeji 
mushrooms, trimmed and separated 
into small bundles
1 cup bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
4 celery stalks, peeled and sliced on an 
angle into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
/one.num⁄/four.denom small napa cabbage head, cored and 
cut into 2-inch pieces
8 green leafy lettuce leaves, cut into 
3-inch pieces
5 (8.8-ounce) packages frozen udon or 
thick wheat noodles, cooked al dente and drained/one.lf/one.lf/one.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook tofu fish cakes for about 3 minutes for frozen and 2 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); tofu, shimeji mushrooms, bamboo shoots, celery, napa cabbage, and fish for 1 to 2 minutes until tender; and let-tuce for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauces.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
/five.lf.Serve udon noodles in a bit of broth to finish the meal.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Fish pieces are delicate; it is best to cook 
them in a ladle basket.
SUBSTITUTION:  Instead of noodles, you can use chewy 
rice cake.
/one.lf/one.lf/two.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersJAPANESE ODEN (FISH 
CAKE STEW) HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, JAPANESE, SEAFOOD
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
A classic comfort dish in Japan during winter, oden is a one-pot dish of fish balls and 
tofu. Simmering in a soy sauce and dashi broth is an assortment of fish balls, fish cakes, konnyaku, tofu, fried tofu, hard-boiled eggs, and some vegetables. Leftover broth is eagerly enjoyed the next day, as it always tastes better! Also try this with my milky broth for another fish-base alternative.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
10 cups Dashi Broth (page 40) or Milky 
White Fish Broth (page 42)
1 batch Simple Sukiyaki Sauce (page 56)
1 batch Piquant Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50) or wasabi, hot mustard, or 
Dijon mustardHOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
2 (18-ounce) packages assorted fish balls, 
including fried fish cakes
1 (6-ounce) daikon, peeled and cut into 
/one.num⁄/two.denom-inch half-moons
1 (16-ounce) package soft or medium tofu, 
drained and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 (4.9-ounce) package fried tofu puffs
2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles, drained and rinsed
/one.num⁄/four.denom cup dried wakame seaweed1 (8-ounce) package imitation crab sticks, 
cut into bite-size pieces
2 leeks, white parts only, sliced on an angle 
into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces
12 quail eggs or 4 eggs, boiled and peeledNori shreds and scallions, for garnish/one.lf/one.lf/three.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth and sukiyaki 
sauce to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook frozen fish balls for about 4 minutes and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); daikon for 2 minutes; tofu, fried tofu, and konnyaku for 1 to 2 minutes; seaweed, crab sticks, and leeks for 1 minute; and the cooked eggs for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce or just wasabi, hot mustard, or Dijon mustard. Also add nori shreds and scallions to accent tofu and ingredients.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat. A hot water kettle will do.INGREDIENT TIP:  Look 
for prepared oden
ingredients in the freezer section of your nearest Japanese market.
VARIATION:  For fun, 
use long wooden skew-ers to skewer three or four items at a time, fish balls or tofu and leeks, according to same cook times. You can also add bite-size hot dogs. Dip in the hot pot to cook instead of using a ladle./one.lf/one.lf/four.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersFILIPINO FISH SINIGANG HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, FILIPINO, SEAFOOD
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Seafood tastes delicious in this popular Filipino soup that enhances your appetite 
with its sour notes. Dried anchovy (iriko) or milky fish is a fantastic starter broth that serves up health-boosting minerals. Together with tangy tamarind, the flavors will develop temptingly with all your hot-pot ingredients. Save any leftover broth for the next day to enjoy again!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Iriko Broth (page 41) or Milky White 
Fish Broth (page 42)
1 batch Savory Soy Dipping Sauce 
(page 50)
1 batch Aromatic Scallion and Ginger Oil 
(page 51)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
2 (1.4-ounce) packets tamarind soup mix
2 tablespoons granulated sugar1 large onion, sliced4 large tomatoes, each cut into 8 wedges1 (6-ounce) daikon, peeled, halved 
lengthwise, and cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch slices
1 pound shrimp, rinsed and drained12 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom cups bamboo shoot slices, drained 
and rinsed
1 /one.num⁄/two.denom pounds boneless fish fillets (salmon 
or white fish), thinly sliced into 
bite-size pieces
Steamed rice/one.lf/one.lf/five.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil. 
Dissolve the tamarind soup mix and sugar in it, then add the onion slices.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook the tomatoes, daikon, and shrimp for 2 minutes until tender, and cook the bok choy, bamboo shoots, and fish for 1 minute. Adjust the heat to maintain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce with a dollop of scal-lion and ginger oil.
/four.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
/five.lf.Serve with steamed rice.VARIATION:  To make a 
whole-fish hot pot, make 
an all-in-one fish hot-pot broth and choose a fish that fits your hot pot nicely. Scale and gut the fish (or ask your fish-monger to do this), rinse well, remove the fins, place in your hot pot, fill with water to cover, and simmer until fully cooked. Carefully trans-fer it whole to a plate (to enjoy) before adding other ingredients./one.lf/one.lf/six.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersYA-HON CAMBODIAN 
SEAFOOD HOT POT
45 MINUTES OR LESS, BEEF, CAMBODIAN, SEAFOOD
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Creamy coconut complements the brininess of seafood, so choose your favorites 
for this Cambodian special. The more shacha sauce you add, the spicier it will taste, giving a lovely orange slick to the white broth. Both noodles and steamed rice are common to eat with ya-hon, so choose whichever you prefer to serve with it.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Creamy Coconut Broth (page 47)
1 batch Savory or Tangy Soy Dipping 
Sauce (page 50)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
8 ounces fish or seafood balls2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles or noodles, drained and rinsed
2 bundles watercress, loosened and cut in 
half if pieces are large
8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
1 (7-ounce) package enoki mushrooms, 
trimmed and separated into 
small bundles
12 quail eggs or 4 eggs, boiled and peeled
1 pound salmon fillet, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch 
bite-size pieces
1 pound thinly sliced beef (combination of 
brisket, sirloin, top blade, or chuck)
1 (1-pound) package vermicelli or dried 
rice sticks, cooked according to package 
instructions and drained/one.lf/one.lf/seven.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot, bring the broth to a rolling boil.
/two.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender 
and cooked through. Cook fish balls for about 4 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); konnyaku, watercress, and bok choy for 1 to 2 minutes; and enoki mushrooms, quail eggs, salmon slices, and beef slices for 30 seconds. Adjust the heat to main-tain a medium simmer at all times.
/three.lf.Noodles just need to be warmed through, then enjoy with the broth.
/four.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce.
/five.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.
SUBSTITUTION:  Replace the beef with your choice of 
seafood. Or, replace the salmon with Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish (page 63)./one.lf/one.lf/eight.lf Hot Pot Cookbook for BeginnersTHAI SPICY SEAFOOD MEDLEY SUKI
45 MINUTES OR LESS, SEAFOOD, SPICY, THAI
SERVES 4 /bar.case PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Seafood lovers rejoice in this delectable mixed seafood hot pot with the fragrant, 
spicy, and sour notes of tom yum. Hot pot in Thailand is known as Thai suki, which resembles shabu-shabu-style hot pot more than Japanese sukiyaki (where the name was adopted). The favored dip is a mix of lime, chile sauce, and cilantro, which pairs deliciously with these hearty ingredients. You can also use the Savory Soy Dipping Sauce on page 50.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Hot-and-Sour Tom Yum Broth 
(page 46)
12 Pork and Shrimp Wontons (page 58)HOT/hyphen.casePOT INGREDIENTS
6 ounces squid tubes, cartilage removed 
and rinsed, or raw calamari rings
16 ounces assorted fish balls
8 ounces mussels on the half shell, rinsed 
and drained
1 pound large shrimp, rinsed and drained8 bok choy, outer large leaves halved, 
center quartered lengthwise
2 cups button mushrooms, halved2 cups konnyaku, cut into /one.num⁄/two.denom-inch pieces, or 
bundles, drained and rinsed
1 (8-ounce) package imitation crab sticks, 
cut into bite-size pieces
8 bundles mung bean noodlesSriracha (optional)Fresh lime juice (optional)Chopped cilantro (optional)/one.lf/one.lf/nine.lf Meat and Seafood Hot Pots/one.lf.Slice the squid tubes open and score into a diamond 
pattern. Cut into 1½-inch strips.
/two.lf.In a 4-quart hot pot or large saucepan, bring the broth to a boil.
/three.lf.Let guests cook their own ingredients until tender and cooked through. Cook wontons and fish balls for about 5 minutes for frozen and 3 minutes for fresh (they are ready when they float to the surface); mus-sels and shrimp for 2 minutes; and squid, bok choy, mushrooms, konnyaku, crab sticks, and noodles (loosen with a chopstick in the broth) for 1 minute.
/four.lf.Serve with the dipping sauce or try sriracha hot sauce mixed with lime juice and chopped cilantro.
/five.lf.Replenish the broth as needed as you continue to cook and eat.PAIRING TIP:  Tame 
the heat with a sip of 
juice from a cold fresh coconut.
VARIATION:  Sliced fish 
fillet pieces are great to add in.FPO
/one.lf/two.lf/one.lfResources
ONLINE AND IN/hyphen.caseSTORE 
GROCERY
Asian Food Grocer (Online Asian 
Groceries and Products)AsianFoodGrocer.com
E Food Depot (Online Japanese, 
Indonesian, and Thai Groceries and Products) EFoodDepot.com
99 Ranch (Asian Groceries and Prod-
ucts) 99ranch.com
H Mart (Korean Groceries and Products)
HMart.com
Mitsuwa Market (Japanese Groceries 
and Products) Mitsuwa.com
Seafood City (Filipino Groceries and 
Products) SeafoodCity.comTO LEARN MORE 
ABOUT HOT POT
Aguilar, Michelle. “Hot Pot: From Food 
to Culture.” Medium. August 6, 2018. Medium.com/@michelleaguilar_90524/hot-pot-from-food-to-culture-ebd2eb050054.
Chen, Karissa. “It’s Always Hot Pot 
Season in Taipei.” Eater. March 6, 2019. eater.com/2019/3/6/18242556/hot-pot-how-to-eat-taipei-tips.
Chen, Vincent. Hot Pot Night!
Watertown, MA: Charlesbridge Publishing, 2020.
Life of Guangzhou. “The History of Hot 
Pot in China.” March 5, 2021. Lifeofguangzhou.com/knowGZ/content.do?contextId=13159&frontParentCatalogId=175.
Zhang, Tingwei. “Chinese Hotpot: A 
Communal Food Culture.” December 22, 2019. Storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/9c3a733c1411400e9f80310fa8b65a9e./one.lf/two.lf/two.lf /one.lf/two.lf/two.lfReferences
Chen, Namiko. “Konnyaku (Konjac).” Just One Cookbook (blog). Last modified 
January 22, 2021. Justonecookbook.com/konjac-konnyaku.
Foshan Wanyene Furniture. “How the Hot Pot History and the Origin of Hot Pot 
Influence People’s Lives.” September 3, 2018. Hotpotset.com/article-184.html.
Goldthread. “The Best Hidden Restaurants in Chongqing.” December 13, 2019. 
Today.line.me/hk/v2/article/r2NEZw.
Hongyu, Bianji. “Hotpot, Barbecue Can Be Traced Back to China’s Han Dynasty.” 
People’s Daily Online. May 25, 2016. En.people.cn/n3/2016/0525/
c98649-9063044.html.
McDermott, Anna. “The Nutritional Value of Soba Noodles.” Healthline. Last modified 
October 12, 2017. Healthline.com/health/food-nutrition/soba-noodles-nutrition#Soba-Noodle-Nutrition./one.lf/two.lf/three.lf /one.lf/two.lf/three.lfIndex
A
All-purpose
Aromatic Scallion and 
Ginger Oil, 51
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
Creamy Sesame Dipping 
Sauce, 53
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65
Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
Pork and Shrimp 
Wontons, 58
Savory Soy Dipping 
Sauce, 50
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52
Asian chives, 21
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
B
Bamboo shoots, 21
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107Taiwanese Shacha
Barbecue Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79
Bean curd
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Taiwanese Shacha
Barbecue Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Bean sprouts, 22
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Beef, 28
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65Japanese Beef 
Sukiyaki, 100–101
Savory Pho Beef 
Broth, 44–45
Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117Bok choy, 22
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Bonito flakes
Dashi Broth, 40–41
Broccoli, 21
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Broths, 15–17
All-Purpose Simple 
Chicken Broth, 32/one.lf/two.lf/four.lf Index /one.lf/two.lf/four.lfBroths (continued) 
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47
Dashi Broth, 40–41Easy Smoky Shacha
Barbecue Broth, 38
Fragrant Mixed Mushroom 
Broth, 33
Hot-and-Sour Tom 
Yum Broth, 46
Milky White Fish Broth, 42Pork Bone Broth, 34Savory Pho Beef Broth, 44–45Soybean or Miso Broth, 39Spicy and Herbal Lamb 
Broth, 36–37
Spicy and Tingly Ma La
Broth, 35
Tangy and Sweet Broth 
(BòNhúng Dấm), 43
C
Cabbage, 22. See also Kimchi
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79
Cambodian
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
Carrots, 21
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75Cauliflower, 21
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Celery, 21
Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Cheese
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Chicken, 28
All-Purpose Simple 
Chicken Broth, 32
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
Chiles
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Sweet and Sour Chile 
Sauce, 54
Chinese
Aromatic Scallion and 
Ginger Oil, 51
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
Easy Smoky Shacha
Barbecue Broth, 38
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87Fragrant Mixed Mushroom 
Broth, 33
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
Milky White Fish Broth, 42Pork and Shrimp 
Wontons, 58
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish, 63
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52
Spicy and Herbal Lamb 
Broth, 36–37
Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth, 35Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Coconut milk
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Curry paste
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
D
Daikon radishes, 23
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Dashi Broth, 40–41/one.lf/two.lf/five.lf Index /one.lf/two.lf/five.lfDishes, 8
Dumplings, 25
Basic Dumpling Dough 
(for Soups), 59
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
Pork and Shrimp Wontons, 58Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
E
Easy
Aromatic Scallion and 
Ginger Oil, 51
Basic Dumpling Dough 
(for Soups), 59
Creamy Sesame Dipping 
Sauce, 53
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65Savory Soy Dipping Sauce, 50Seasoned Fish Sauce (Nuoc 
Mam Cham), 55
Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish, 63
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52
Simple Sukiyaki Sauce 
(Warishita), 56
Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce, 54
Eggs, 25
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
Etiquette, 9–10
F
Filipino Fish Sinigang Hot 
Pot, 114–115
Fish and seafood, 27–28
Dashi Broth, 40–41Easy Smoky Shacha
Barbecue Broth, 38
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115
fish balls, 24Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Milky White Fish Broth, 42Pork and Shrimp Wontons, 58Seasoned Fish Sauce (Nuoc 
Mam Cham), 55
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish, 63
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
45 minutes or less
Aromatic Scallion and 
Ginger Oil, 51
Basic Dumpling Dough 
(for Soups), 59
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47Easy Smoky Shacha
Barbecue Broth, 38
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65Hot-and-Sour Tom Yum 
Broth, 46
Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish, 63
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52
Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth, 35Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce, 54Tangy and Sweet Broth 
(BòNhúng Dấm), 43
Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117/one.lf/two.lf/six.lf Index /one.lf/two.lf/six.lfG
Garnishes, 18
Ginger Oil, Aromatic 
Scallion and, 51
Gluten-free
All-Purpose Simple 
Chicken Broth, 32
Basic Dumpling Dough 
(for Soups), 59
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47Dashi Broth, 40–41Fragrant Mixed Mushroom 
Broth, 33
Hot-and-Sour Tom 
Yum Broth, 46
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Milky White Fish 
Broth, 42
Pork Bone Broth, 34Savory Pho Beef 
Broth, 44–45
Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish, 63
Tangy and Sweet Broth 
(BòNhúng Dấm), 43
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Grocery shopping, 13–14
H
Health benefits, 5Hot dogs, 21Hot pot
about, 1–3cooking tips, 9–11etiquette, 9–10health benefits, 5pot selection, 4–7regional differences, 3–4I
Ingredients, 13–14, 18–29
J
Japanese
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Dashi Broth, 40–41Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Simple Sukiyaki Sauce 
(Warishita), 56
Soybean or Miso Broth, 39Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79
K
Kabocha squash, 24
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79
Kimchi, 22
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Kombu
Dashi Broth, 40–41
Konnyaku
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Japanese Beef 
Sukiyaki, 100–101
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
Korean
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Soybean or Miso Broth, 39Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
L
Lamb, 29
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Spicy and Herbal Lamb 
Broth, 36–37
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Leeks, 21
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Japanese Beef 
Sukiyaki, 100–101
Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79
Leftovers, 11Lettuce, 21
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Lotus root, 24
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103/one.lf/two.lf/seven.lf Index /one.lf/two.lf/seven.lfHearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
M
Malaysian
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47
Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Meat. See also specific
All-Purpose Simple 
Chicken Broth, 32
Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
Pork and Shrimp Wontons, 58Pork Bone Broth, 34Savory Pho Beef Broth, 44–45slicing, 26Spicy and Herbal Lamb 
Broth, 36–37
Meatballs, 24
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65
Meatless
Aromatic Scallion and 
Ginger Oil, 51
Basic Dumpling Dough 
(for Soups), 59
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
Creamy Sesame Dipping 
Sauce, 53
Fragrant Mixed Mushroom 
Broth, 33
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Hot-and-Sour Tom Yum Broth, 46Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Savory Soy Dipping Sauce, 50Simple Sukiyaki Sauce 
(Warishita), 56Soybean or Miso Broth, 39Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth, 35Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce, 54Tangy and Sweet Broth 
(BòNhúng Dấm), 43
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79
Miso Broth, Soybean or, 39Mongolian
Spicy and Herbal Lamb 
Broth, 36–37
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Mushrooms, 21
Bok Choy, Shiitake, and Chive 
Dumplings, 60–61
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Fragrant Mixed Mushroom 
Broth, 33
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Sichuan Ma La  Fish Hot Pot, 110–111Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
types of, 22–23Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
N
Noodles
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119/one.lf/two.lf/eight.lf Index /one.lf/two.lf/eight.lfNoodles (continued)
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
types of, 19–20Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
O
Oil, Aromatic Scallion 
and Ginger, 51
P
Pineapple
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Pork, 29
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
Pork and Shrimp Wontons, 58Pork Bone Broth, 34Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Pot selection, 4–7
R
Recipes, about, 29Rice cakes, 26
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
S
Sauces, 17
Creamy Sesame Dipping 
Sauce, 53Savory Soy Dipping Sauce, 50Seasoned Fish Sauce (Nuoc 
Mam Cham), 55
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52
Simple Sukiyaki Sauce 
(Warishita), 56
Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce, 54
Scallion and Ginger Oil, 
Aromatic, 51
Seafood. See Fish and seafoodSeasonings, 16–17Seaweed, 25–26
Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77
Seitan, 26
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Sesame Dipping Sauce, Creamy, 53Shellfish, 28. See also Fish 
and seafood
Shrimp
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Pork and Shrimp Wontons, 58Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Soybean or Miso Broth, 39Soy Dipping Sauce, Savory, 50Spam, 21
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Spicy
Easy Smoky Shacha
Barbecue Broth, 38
Fragrant Mixed Mushroom 
Broth, 33Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Marvelous Mushroom 
Hot Pot, 68–69
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Sichuan Spicy Ma La
Marinated Fish, 63
Spicy and Herbal Lamb 
Broth, 36–37
Spicy and Tingly Ma La Broth, 35Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Sweet and Sour Chile Sauce, 54Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Spinach, 22
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77
Stocks, 15–16
T
Table setting, 8Taiwanese
Easy Smoky Shacha
Barbecue Broth, 38
Silky Egg and Shacha
Barbecue Sauce, 52
Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99/one.lf/two.lf/nine.lf Index /one.lf/two.lf/nine.lfThai
Creamy Coconut Broth, 47
Hot-and-Sour Tom Yum Broth, 46Seasoned Fish Sauce 
(Nuoc Mam Cham), 55
Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Thai Spicy Seafood Medley 
Suki, 118–119
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Tofu
Chanko Nabe Sumo Wrestler 
Hot Pot, 88–89
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Japanese Beef Sukiyaki, 100–101Japanese Oden (Fish Cake 
Stew) Hot Pot, 112–113
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97
Lamb Shabu-Shabu, 108–109Laotian Pork Sukiyaki, 92–93Malaysian Curry Laksa
Chicken Hot Pot, 90–91
Sichuan Ma La Fish Hot 
Pot, 110–111
Spicy Ma La Mixed Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 70–71
Spicy Mongolian Lamb 
Hot Pot, 106–107Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Thai Coconut Curry Pork 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tofu Miso Hot Pot, 76–77types of, 19Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Tomatoes, 21
Filipino Fish Sinigang 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Tom Yum Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 82–83
Turkey
Homemade Meatballs, 64–65Meat and Vegetable 
Dumplings, 62
U
Utensils, 7–8
V
Vegan. See MeatlessVegetarian. See MeatlessVietnamese
BòNhúng Dấm Beef Hot 
Pot, 102–103
Hearty Root Vegetable 
Hot Pot, 80–81
Savory Pho Beef 
Broth, 44–45Seasoned Fish Sauce (Nuoc 
Mam Cham), 55
Tangy and Sweet Broth 
(BòNhúng Dấm), 43
Vietnamese Beef Pho 
Hot Pot, 104–105
Vinegars, 17
W
Watercress, 22
“Everything-in-One” 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Spicy Rice Cake and Dumpling 
Hot Pot, 74–75
Taiwanese Shacha Barbecue 
Beef Shabu-Shabu, 98–99
Vegetable Sukiyaki, 78–79Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
Wontons, Pork and Shrimp, 58
Y
Ya-Hon Cambodian Seafood 
Hot Pot, 116–117
Z
Zucchini
Kimchi and Tofu Chigae
Hot Pot, 72–73
Korean Spicy Army Stew 
Hot Pot, 96–97ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I’d like to thank my boisterous family: my husband, Quoc, for his support and for 
entertaining the kids while I plugged away at writing, and my boys—Étienne, Sébastien, and Matias—for the boundless fun and for enduring the summer heat eating hot pot during the recipe development phase. Thank goodness for AC! My mother, for nurturing my love for cooking. My father, for instilling in me that knowledge is power and cross-checking my hot-pot references against Chinese literature. My brother, Marten Go, and sister-in-law, Yoko, for introducing me to hot pots in Japan and for their recipe feedback. My sister, Trai, for believing I could do this amid my busy teaching schedule. A special thank-you to my best friend, Huong, for encouraging me from the very beginning and being my cheerleader as I worked through every milestone. My niece, Kathia, work partners, and students for their enthusiasm and support with my exciting book announcement. And the incredible team at Rockridge Press for their guidance and getting me through seamlessly to the finish line. The inspiration I got from all of you kept me keeping on. Having my own cookbook is a dream come true!
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Susan Ng is a culinary consultant and food educator. Her passion is to inspire people of all ages to get in the kitchen to cook, eat healthy, and learn about multiculturalism by trying different cuisines. She instructs cooking classes and designs culinary pro-grams through school and community collaborations. She lives in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, with her husband and three children. You can find her sharing new food adventures at work and play @susanssavourit and susanssavourit.blogspot.ca.