2
 Dumplings for BeginnersWhy Make Dumplings at Home?
There are many benefits to making dumplings at home. Perhaps you want to control 
what goes into your dumplings, or maybe you don’t live near an Asian market to buy 
premade wrappers. For example, a friend has a shellfish allergy, which prevents her 
from going out for dim sum. Or, if you follow a gluten-free diet, you might have a hard 
time ordering safely in a restaurant. Whatever your motivation, this book will show you 
how to create authentic flavors with your own wrappers and fillings.  Making dumplings 
is not exactly an easy process, but I’ll break it down for you into doable steps.
What’s in a Dumpling?
Most Asian dumplings consist of a piece of dough wrapped around a filling. There 
are many variations of dumpling wrappers and fillings as well as cooking methods. 
Dumplings can be bite-size or large, savory or sweet—but the most important quali-
ties of a dumpling are the texture and flavor of its wrapper and filling. Wrappers can 
be crunchy, soft, chewy, or tender. Fillings must be extremely flavorful and tender. The 
possibility of combinations is endless!
This book covers some of the most well-loved traditional Asian dumplings that are 
boiled, steamed, pan-fried, or deep-fried. Y ou’ll get recipes for shu mai, har gow, fried 
wontons, and many other classics. The book also includes some steamed baos, which 
aren’t technically dumplings but still encase a flavorful filling and are steamed and 
pan-fried just like dumplings.
The first dumplings are said to have originated more than 1,800 years ago in China 
during the Han dynasty. As the legend goes, one very cold winter, a man named 
Zhang Zhongjing returned to his village after traveling and found people starving. 
T o help them, he cooked some meat, flavored it with herbs and spices, and wrapped 
small portions of the meat with scraps of dough. He folded the dumplings in a shape 
to resemble ears. He boiled the dumplings and served them to his community. The 
villagers were so grateful for his creation that they continued to make dumplings 
throughout the year in his honor.
T oday, dumplings are enjoyed around the world. Nearly every cuisine features a 
dumpling-like dish that represents its own culture and flavors. And specifically, almost 
every Asian culture features dumplings that are similar in shape and cooking method 
with varying fillings and wrappers. Japanese gyozas, for example, are like Chinese pot -
stickers: both are shaped into a pleated crescent and pan-fried.