50 Recipes and Simple 
Step-by-Step Lessons to Make 
Your Favorite Dumplings
TERRI DIENDUMPLINGS
forbeginners
Your Favorite Dumplings
TERRI DIEN
TERRI DIEN
Make your own Asian dumplings from 
scratch with beginner-friendly recipes
Dumplings are li/t_t  le parcels of love—juicy presents on a plate that bring joy 
with every savory bite. And now you can enjoy restaurant-quality potstickers,
wontons, baos, and other dim sum classics without leaving the comfort 
of your own kitchen! Dumplings for Beginners is ﬁ  lled with instructions 
to guide you through every step of the dumpling-making process.
Step-by-step directions and detailed illustrations teach you how to 
make, portion, and roll out three types of dough, as well as how to 
fold ﬁ  ve classic dumpling shapes. Once you’ve mastered the basics, 
dive into easy-to-follow recipes for boiled, steamed, fried, and pan-fried 
dumplings—plus soups, side snacks, and dipping sauces.
DOUGH PRIMERS  Learn the diﬀ  erent types of dumpling dough, 
traditional folding techniques, tips for using store-bought wrappers, 
and solutions to common issues.
KITCHEN ESSENTIALS  Ensure dumpling success with advice for 
stocking your kitchen with must-have equipment and ingredients.
RECIPE HACKS  Switch up the ﬂ  avors and textures of your dumplings 
with suggestions for alternate ﬁ  llings, sauce and stock pairings, cooking 
methods, and more.
RECIPES INCLUDE Shu Mai /orn.042Beef and Scallion Dumplings 
/orn.042Xiao Long Bao /orn.042Classic Pork Potstickers /orn.042Hot and Sour Soup 
/orn.042Chili Crisp Sauce, and more!
CHEF TERRI DIEN has a 15-year teaching career for Draeger’s Cooking School, 
South San Francisco Parks and Recreation, and Sur La Table. Currently, she is 
executive chef for the Child Care Program at Google. Dien lives in San Mateo, 
California, with her husband, Paul, and their two cats, Sarah and Henry. Keep 
in touch with her on Instagram @ChefTerriDien.
U.S. $14.99 CAN $19.99 R0DIEN                                  DUMPLINGS FOR BEGINNERS