13 Dumplings Made Simple Dumpling Cooking Techniques
In this section, we’ll cover four dumpling cooking techniques, each yielding a different 
texture. I’ll also teach you which dumplings can be cooked multiple ways.
BOILING
The simplest way to cook dumplings at home is to boil them in seasoned water. When 
paired with a flavorful sauce or condiment, like chili oil or vinegar, boiled dumplings 
are perfectly balanced with a tender but chewy exterior and a juicy filling. Added to a 
flavorful broth, boiled dumplings can also make a hearty soup.
Wontons and any dumplings made with Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20) can be 
boiled—just make sure the filling is sealed tightly with no gaps in the dough!
STEAMING
Steamed dumplings come in a variety of shapes and sizes: translucent crystal dump-
lings like har gow, cup-shaped shu mai, fluffy char siu bao, and many other delicious 
combinations of fillings folded into interesting shapes.
Steaming is a fast cooking process. Many recipes take just a few minutes to cook 
through. As with boiling, no oil is used, so the only flavor comes from the filling. Y ou 
don’t need a bamboo steamer, but you’ll need at least a stockpot, steamer basket, and 
lid. Serve steamed dumplings with a flavorful sauce or condiment.
PAN-FRYING
This method is a combination of steaming and pan-frying. First, the dumplings are 
briefly fried to develop a light crust on their bottoms, then a small amount of water 
is added to the pan. The pan is covered, and the steam cooks the dumplings. Finally, 
the lid is lifted, and any residual water is allowed to evaporate; during this process the 
bottoms become deep brown and crispy.
Potstickers, gyoza, and shengjian bao are the most common pan-fried dumplings, 
but nearly any dumpling made from Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20) or Bao Dough 
(page 22) can be pan-fried. Serve the dumplings crispy-bottom up!
DEEP-FRYING
The magic of a deep-fried dumpling! Its golden, crunchy exterior makes it easy to pop 
one straight into your mouth, so it makes the perfect finger food for parties.
Deep-fried dumplings are best for those dumplings made with wonton skins, Basic 
Dumpling Dough (page 20) wrappers, and Crystal Dumpling Dough (page 21). Make 
sure the filling doesn’t have excess moisture, as the dumplings tend to explode from 
the steam expanding in the filling as they cook.