14 Dumplings for BeginnersTroubleshooting Your Dumplings
How many dumplings should I serve per person?
Generally, serving three to four different types of dumpling, with two of each type per 
person, makes a satisfying meal. Serve a platter of noodles or sautéed vegetables on 
the side to round out the meal.
How do I stop my dumplings from unraveling/bursting when I cook them?
The trick is to seal them well and to make sure there are no holes or gaps where the 
filling can seep out, or the wrappers can fall apart. T o prevent bursting, squeeze out 
as much excess moisture from wet filling ingredients as possible before mixing into 
the filling.
My frozen dumpling skins are cracked. How do I rescue them?
Sadly, there isn’t much that can be done if frozen dumpling skins are cracked—it’s a 
form of freezer burn, where the wrapper loses too much moisture to the freezer envi-
ronment. If you have fresh dumpling wrappers, you can rescue the filling and place 
them into fresh skins. T o avoid cracked dumplings, don’t keep them in the freezer for 
more than one to two months. And chill the fresh dumplings in the refrigerator for an 
hour before moving them to the freezer.
How can I make sure my filling is seasoned correctly before I fold a bunch of 
dumplings?
T aste test your filling by cooking a small meatball-size patty in a skillet. After 
you’ve tasted the cooked filling, you can decide if you need to add more salt or 
other seasonings.
Help! My dumplings clump together/stick to the pan when I cook them.
If the dumplings stick together during cooking, that’s a sign they didn’t have enough 
room around them when cooking and were too crowded in the pan. Add more water 
to the pan to steam them, then carefully pry them apart. If they stuck together while 
boiling, there wasn’t enough water in the pot. T ry boiling them again in fresh water 
and pull them apart gently. If your potstickers are stuck to the pan, add more oil to 
the pan and tilt the pan to slip the oil underneath the dumplings. T urn off the heat 
and let the dumplings rest for a few moments. Sometimes, potstickers will contract 
and unstick themselves. A very thin, flexible metal spatula, like a fish turner, can also 
slip underneath and dislodge them.