18
 Dumplings for BeginnersA Dumpling Dough Primer
This section covers the different types of dumpling doughs as well as their shapes and 
sizes. I’ll also introduce five easy folds that you’ll use to make the dumplings in this book.
STORE-BOUGHT VERSUS HOMEMADE
The ongoing debate over store-bought versus homemade wrappers rages on. Let me 
share the merits of each, so you can decide for yourself.
Store-bought wrappers are time-saving, convenient, and uniform in size and thick -
ness, but they aren’t as easy to pleat as homemade wrappers. And, depending on 
where you live, there may be limited choices available.
Homemade wrappers can elevate your dumpling quality and you can add flavoring 
elements to customize them. They are inexpensive to make, and when you roll them 
out, the edges get thinner than the center, which makes pleating them easier. The only 
drawback is time: the dough must rest before you can roll each wrapper to size.
Unless you need to make a dumpling like har gow, which requires the crystal dump-
ling wrapper—which must be made from scratch—you can use store-bought wrappers 
for most dumplings in this book.
TYPES OF DOUGH
There are as many kinds of dough for equally as many types of dumplings; however, 
this book covers the three main wrappers, or what we call Master Recipes.
Basic dumpling dough. This is the main, all-purpose wrapper you can make if you 
decide to forego the store-bought varieties.
Crystal dumpling dough. When cooked, this wrapper turns translucent, showing the 
filling inside. Though it’s mainly used for steamed shrimp dumplings like har gow, I’ve 
seen crystal wrappers used for colorful vegetable fillings for maximum visual impact.
Bao dough. Used for most of the steamed buns (or baos), this yeasted dough yields 
a soft, fluffy texture that is more cake-like than a burger bun.
Y ou can customize each dough to suit your style and tastes, adding spices and vege-
table powders to create new flavors and colors.
WRAPPER SIZES AND SHAPES
Every dumpling starts out with either a round or square wrapper. But it’s the folding of 
the wrapper that determines the final shape of the dumpling.
The thickness of the wrapper determines the texture of the cooked dumpling. For 
instance, wontons generally require paper-thin square wrappers to create a soft, slip-
pery texture, whereas potstickers use thicker round wrappers for a chewier texture.