3 Dumplings Made Simple ASIAN DUMPLING CHEAT SHEET
Bao: A fluffy steamed bun made from soft, yeasted dough; can be filled with savory or 
sweet fillings or enjoyed without filling.
Char siu bao: A steamed bun with a Chinese barbecue pork filling; technically not a 
dumpling but enjoyed with dim sum.
Gyoza: The Japanese potsticker; the filling can be similar to Chinese potstickers, but 
the wrapper is thinner, like a wonton wrapper.
Har gow: Steamed shrimp dumpling made with see-through crystal dumpling dough 
so the cooked shrimp inside shows through.
Jiaozi: Chinese steamed dumplings, usually enjoyed during Lunar New Y ear celebra-
tions; often filled with ground pork and vegetables.
Mandu: Korean dumplings, generally folded using the wonton fold (with round wrap-
pers) or pleated crescent fold; can be steamed, boiled, added to soup, or pan-fried.
Momo: Steamed dumplings filled with spiced ground meats and vegetables; these 
dumplings are enjoyed in Tibet, Nepal, Bhutan, and India.
Potsticker: Its Chinese name, guotie, translates to “wok stuck. ” It’s a delicious acci-
dent—a cook let dumplings steam too long in the wok, resulting in nearly burnt 
bottoms that were crispy yet steamed.
Shengjian bao: This Shanghainese breakfast staple is a bao filled with savory fillings 
and pan-fried for a crispy bottom.
Shiu jiao: Its literal translation, “water dumpling, ” is the basic Chinese boiled dump-
ling. When steamed, this dumpling becomes a jiaozi. When pan-fried, it’s a potsticker.
Shu mai: A popular steamed dumpling in dim sum restaurants, shu mai is small, 
cup-shaped, and typically filled with pork and shrimp.
Wonton: Named for its tortellini-like shape, wontons use thin, translucent wrappers 
made from flour and water; served boiled and then added to soups or deep-fried.
Xiao Long Bao: The word “xiao long” refers to the small bamboo steamer baskets in 
which they are cooked. These originate from the Shanghai region of China and are 
called “soup dumplings” for the filling that yields a rich, flavorful soup.