Dumplings for Beginners 2626Less is more. Overfilling makes it difficult to fold the dumplings. Use less filling than 
you think you need to get the shape down first. Once you’ve gotten the hang of fold-
ing them, you can gradually increase the amount of filling in the dumplings.
Practice makes perfect. Fold and pleat using your dominant hand while holding the 
wrapper steady in your other hand.
Prep your wrappers. T o prevent dry wrappers, keep them under plastic wrap or 
under a damp cloth. A light dusting of rice flour or cornstarch between the wrappers 
can help keep them from sticking together.
Seal the deal. Close your dumplings tightly, so the fillings don’t seep out during 
cooking. If you are using store-bought wrappers, use my magic sealing solution (see 
below) to help glue the pleats and folds together. It’s basically a cornstarch slurry, 
but you can also use water or egg whites to help seal the edges.
Fold #1: The Basic Half-Moon Fold
This is the easiest shape for boiled or steamed dumplings. Y ou can make a variation of 
this fold using a square wrapper to make a triangle fold.
1. If using store-bought wrappers, in a small bowl, stir together 1 teaspoon (3 g) 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water to create a cornstarch slurry. Skip 
the slurry if using homemade wrappers. The slurry helps store-bought wrappers 
stick together to seal (they have a drier consistency than homemade ones).
2. Lay 1 round wrapper on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon (weight varies) 
of filling in the center. Use the back of the spoon to flatten the filling slightly.
3. If using store-bought wrappers, dip the tip of your index finger into the slurry 
and moisten the edge of the wrapper all the way around, 
re-dipping as necessary.
4. Fold the bottom edge of the wrapper up over the filling to 
meet the top edge and press at the top center to seal it. 
Press down the sides and pay attention to sealing the cor-
ners well, so the filling doesn’t leak out. If some of the filling 
squeezes out as you seal the wrapper, open the wrapper and 
carefully remove some of the filling.
5. Place the sealed dumpling on a baking sheet and cover with 
plastic wrap. Repeat the process with the remaining filling 
and wrappers.
 STEP 5