4 Dumplings for BeginnersYour Dumpling Tool Kit
Making dumplings at home requires proper tools and equipment. I’ll cover the essen-
tials here, as well as some nice-to-haves that make the process more efficient.
FOR MAKING WRAPPERS AND FILLINGS
Cutting boards: One cutting board for animal proteins and another for vegetables 
and fruits to avoid cross-contamination; choose wood composite or plastic boards 
that are sturdy and have a wide surface but can fit in your dishwasher.
Knives: An all-purpose chef’s knife and a paring knife work fine.
Measuring cups and spoons: Keep a standard measuring cup and spoon set 
handy. Pay attention to what the amounts look like when you measure them, so you 
can begin eyeballing your amounts for faster prep.
Mixing bowls: At least two mixing bowls—one for the dumpling dough and another 
for the filling; metal bowls are lighter to lift than glass or ceramic and can cool the 
filling faster.
Plastic scraper: A thin, flexible plastic baker’s scraper comes in handy when turn-
ing out your dumpling dough from the bowl to the counter to knead it smooth. The 
scraper is also rigid enough to cut the dough into small pieces. 
Prep bowls: Small reusable bowls that range from 1/ 4 cup to 2 cups in size for hold-
ing measured ingredients.
Small rolling pin or dowel: When rolling out dumpling wrappers, the smaller the 
rolling pin, the more control you have. A thick wooden dowel a little wider than the 
width of your hand is ideal.
Strainer or colander: Keep one small wire-mesh strainer for sifting lumpy flour and 
one large strainer to drain canned goods or salted cabbage. A colander is helpful to 
drain washed greens.
Whisk and wooden spoon: The best tools for mixing doughs and fillings are your 
hands, but a whisk is helpful to incorporate dry ingredients for a dough, as is a 
wooden spoon to mix it all together.
FOR COOKING YOUR DUMPLINGS
Chopsticks: Chopsticks are great for lifting delicately steamed dumplings from their 
baskets, eating, and for general use. If you don’t have chopsticks, tongs work just as well. 