33 A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds Troubleshooting Your Dough
Don’t be discouraged if your dumplings aren't “restaurant quality” at first.  Here are 
some troubleshooting tips and answers to the most common dumpling problems.
Can dumpling wrappers be made without flour for gluten-free options?
Absolutely! T ry the Crystal Dumpling Dough (page 21), which is gluten-free; and use 
gluten-free baking mixes such as King Arthur's Measure for Measure flour instead of 
all-purpose flour for the Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20).
How thick should the dumpling wrapper be when rolled out properly?
When rolled out, the wrapper should be between 3 and 4 inches in diameter and have 
the same thickness as a tortilla. As you rotate and roll the wrapper, the edges will 
become thinner than the center of the wrapper, which is great because thinner edges 
make for easier pleating.
My dumpling dough seems stiff and dry. What can I do to fix that?
If the dough seems dry, perhaps a little more water is needed. As you knead, sprinkle 
some water on the surface.
Can I freeze the dumplings?
Absolutely! The best practice is to assemble the dumplings completely and freeze 
them on a baking sheet. Once they are frozen, transfer them to a resealable bag. Cook 
them from frozen—there is no need to defrost the frozen dumplings before cooking.
Can I freeze store-bought wrappers?
Yes, you can. Thaw them in the refrigerator for three to four days before using. They will be 
less pliable, but spray them lightly with water and roll them out a bit before using them.
What should I do if my dumpling wrappers tear?
You can repair small tears and holes by rolling out a very thin piece of another dump-
ling wrapper. Brush the slurry over the tear and patch it. Roll out the wrapper to 
smooth out the thickness.
I steamed my char siu baos in a bamboo steamer and they came out yellow. 
What happened?
Bamboo steamers, especially newer ones, give off a golden-colored steam, which will 
tint your dumplings. When cooking dumplings such as potstickers or har gow, you 
won’t notice it much. However, the yeasted buns will take on the color much more. T o 
avoid this, steam the buns in stainless-steel steamers instead.