36
 Dumplings for BeginnersSHUI JIAO
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Shui jiao, or “water dumplings,” are an everyday staple in many Chinese households. 
Shaped like half-moons and filled with pork and vegetables, these are tasty and hearty. 
Make an extra batch to keep in the freezer when you’re short on time. They can be on the 
table in the time it takes to boil the water!
1 (10-ounce) package 
frozen spinach, defrosted, 
squeezed, and chopped
8 ounces ground pork
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 tablespoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
Pinch ground white pepper
2 tablespoons sesame oil
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2 to 3 tablespoons 
Scallion-Ginger Oil  
(page 102), for garnish
Mix it uP: After boiling these 
dumplings, you can pan-fry 
them to add a crispy texture to 
the skins. Follow the pan-frying 
instructions in chapter 5 (see 
page 70).1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the 
spinach, ground pork, soy sauce, rice wine, and white 
pepper. Add the sesame oil and ginger and mix until 
thoroughly combined. Cover and refrigerate while 
you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with a cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
4. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 
8 cups of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to 
dissolve.  Add the dumplings, gently stirring to keep 
them from sticking. Bring the water back to a boil, 
then add 1 cup of cold water.
6. Bring the water to a boil again and cook the dump-
lings for 7 to 8 minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer 
the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they float. Using 
a spider, transfer the dumplings to a warm platter. 
7. Serve with the scallion-ginger oil.