38
 Dumplings for BeginnersSICHUAN WONTONS IN CHILI OIL
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
A popular Sichuan street food, these spicy wontons in chili oil are perfect for a winter night. 
The recipe also works great as an appetizer and helps prepare the palate for the main part 
of the meal.
12 small shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
roughly chopped
8 ounces ground pork
3 garlic cloves, smashed
2 teaspoons light soy sauce
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
Sichuan peppercorns
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup chili oil
2 tablespoons Chinkiang 
vinegar 
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilan-
tro leaves
Cooking tiP: If you can’t 
find Chinkiang vinegar, sub-
stitute 2 tablespoons balsamic 
vinegar and 1 tablespoon rice 
vinegar.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine 
the shrimp, ground pork, garlic, soy sauce, rice 
wine, Sichuan pepper, and sugar. Pulse to form a 
smooth paste.
2. In a medium bowl, stir together the chili oil and vine-
gar and set aside.
3. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edge of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
6. Add the dumplings, gently stirring to keep them from 
sticking together. Bring the water to a boil again, 
cook the dumplings for 7 to 8 minutes, then add 
1 cup of cold water. Bring the water to a boil again 
and cook the dumplings for 7 to 8 minutes more. 
Reduce the heat and simmer the dumplings for 
2 minutes, or until they float. Using a skimmer, trans-
fer the wontons to a warm serving bowl.
7. Stir 2 tablespoons of cooking water into the chili oil 
mixture and drizzle it over the dumplings. Garnish 
with cilantro to serve.