39
 Boiled DumplingsMANDU-GUK (KIMCHI DUMPLINGS 
IN EGG DROP SOUP)
serves  4 PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 35 minutes
Mandu-guk is a Korean-style dumpling soup served in a rich broth laced with egg. Tradi -
tionally eaten on New Year’s Day, mandu-guk uses beef or anchovy broth, but this version 
uses vegetable stock.
1 medium zucchini, grated 
and squeezed of excess 
moisture
1 cup kimchi, drained 
and chopped
2 fresh shiitake mush-
rooms, stemmed 
and minced
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
6 cups vegetable stock
3 large garlic 
cloves, smashed
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 scallions, green parts 
only, sliced on the diagonal
1 teaspoon toasted 
sesame seeds
Make it easier: Since this 
recipe uses wonton folds, you 
can use store-bought wonton 
wrappers, if you prefer.1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the zuc-
chini, kimchi, mushrooms, and cornstarch.  Set aside.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 31/2-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
4. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large saucepan, combine the 
vegetable stock, garlic, soy sauce, sesame oil, and 
salt. Bring to a boil and cook for 8 to 10 minutes. Add 
the dumplings and return the liquid to a boil. Reduce 
the heat to low and simmer the dumplings for 5 to 
8 minutes, or until they float.
6. Gently stir the soup and pour in the beaten eggs as 
you stir, creating ribbons of egg. Add the scallions 
and simmer for 30 seconds.
7. Divide the soup and dumplings among bowls. T op 
with sesame seeds to serve. 
 VEGETARIAN