40
 Dumplings for BeginnersFISH AND NAPA CABBAGE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 50 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
These dumplings have a delicate flavor thanks to the cod, but you can use any mild white 
fish, such as sole, pollock, or haddock. Use fish sauce in place of the rice wine for a richer 
flavor. Enjoy these dumplings with Scallion-Ginger Oil (page 102).
2 cups shredded 
Napa cabbage
2 tablespoons kosher 
salt, divided
8 ounces cod fillets, cut 
into small chunks
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
Ground white pepper
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 scallion, white and green 
parts, minced
1 batch Basic Dump-
ling Dough (page 20) or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Mix it uP: Serve with XO 
Sauce (page 100) for a deeper 
umami flavor.1. Make the filling: Wilt the cabbage with 1 tablespoon 
of salt for 10 to 15 minutes. Squeeze out the excess 
water, then transfer to a food processor.
2. Add the cod, rice wine, and a pinch of pepper to the 
food processor. Pulse until roughly chopped.
3. Add 2 tablespoons of water, the cornstarch, and 
scallion and pulse to form a smooth paste. Cover and 
refrigerate while you roll the dough, or up to 1 day.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
6. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings and bring the water to a boil 
again, stirring occasionally. Reduce the heat to low 
and simmer the dumplings for 2 to 3 minutes, or 
until they float. Using a spider, transfer the dump-
lings to a warm platter. 