41
 Boiled DumplingsBEEF AND SCALLION DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
This is a great starter recipe if you’re new to making dumplings. These easy and satisfying 
dumplings pair well with just about any garnish you can dream up, but Chili Crisp Sauce 
(page 99) is especially nice.
12 ounces ground beef
11/2 tablespoons light 
soy sauce
4 teaspoons sesame 
oil, divided
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground Sich-
uan peppercorns
1/ 4 cup chicken stock
1 tablespoon cornstarch
5 or 6 scallions, white and 
green parts, thinly sliced, 
divided 
1 batch Basic Dump-
ling Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
Mix it uP: Substitute ground 
turkey for the beef. The dump-
lings will be just as tasty!1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine the 
ground beef, soy sauce, 2 teaspoons of sesame oil, 
ginger, and Sichuan pepper and pulse to form a 
coarse paste. Add the chicken stock and cornstarch 
and pulse until well mixed.
2. T ransfer the mixture to a large bowl and stir in half 
the scallions. Cover and refrigerate while you roll the 
dough, or up to 1 day.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board, and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrappers with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
5. Fold using the Basic Half-Moon Fold (see page 26). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
7. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, 
and cook for 7 to 8 minutes. Add 1 cup of cold 
water. Bring the water to a boil again and cook for 
7 to 8 minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer for 
2 minutes, or until floating. Using a spider, transfer 
the dumplings to a warm platter.