42
 Dumplings for BeginnersCHARRED CABBAGE AND CHIVE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 30 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
Roasting cabbage until it chars around the edges gives it a deeper, richer flavor. Give this 
one a try—it’s one of my favorites!
1/2 head green cabbage, 
cored and roughly chopped
4 fresh shiitake mush-
rooms, stemmed and sliced
2 garlic cloves, peeled
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
Pinch kosher salt, plus 
1 tablespoon
1/ 4 cup roughly chopped 
fresh Chinese garlic chives 
or scallions
1 tablespoon dark soy 
sauce or mushroom 
soy sauce
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine 
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon sriracha sauce
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Mix it uP: Turn these dump-
lings into a delicious soup 
by adding them to a batch of 
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth (page 91).1. Make the filling: Preheat the oven to 450°F. Line a 
baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. On the baking sheet, toss together the cabbage, 
mushrooms, garlic, vegetable oil, and a pinch of salt. 
Roast for 15 to 25 minutes, or until the cabbage is 
charred around the edges.  Remove from the oven 
and let cool.
3. T ransfer to a food processor. Add the garlic chives, 
soy sauce, cornstarch, rice wine, sesame oil, and 
sriracha and pulse to form a thick paste. T ransfer to 
a bowl and set aside.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edge of 
the wrappers with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
6. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings, bring to a boil again, and cook 
the dumplings for 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce the 
heat and simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or 
until they float. 
  VEGAN