5 Dumplings Made Simple Large saucepan: For making soups and sauces, you’ll need a saucepan large 
enough to hold 3 to 4 quarts.
Nonstick skillet with lid: This is a must-have for cooking potstickers and shengjian 
bao. A nonstick surface will keep the dumplings from sticking, and the lid will trap 
the steam. If you are concerned about nonstick material, consider choosing pans 
made from ceramic titanium, such as Scanpan.
Spatula: A thin, flexible metal spatula can easily slip underneath an unruly pot -
sticker and unstick it; however, if your nonstick pan is coated, choose a silicone 
spatula to prevent scratching the pan.
Spider: Also called a skimmer, a wide mesh spider is an essential tool for lifting 
deep-fried dumplings from hot oil and transferring boiled wontons from their cook -
ing water into soups. In a pinch, a slotted spoon works, too.
Steamer baskets: Classic stacking bamboo steamer baskets that come with a lid 
are inexpensive and handy—and not just for steaming dumplings. These baskets are 
made to fit over woks, but they can perch over a stockpot, if necessary, if the pot is 
wide enough for the baskets to sit and create a tight seal. Rinse the baskets under 
warm water before steaming so they do not absorb too much steam while cooking. 
An expandable metal blossom steamer basket is perfectly fine for steaming dump-
lings, too. 
Wide stockpot with lid or a Dutch oven: The stockpot should be wide enough for 
the bamboo steamer basket to sit atop it, and deep enough to hold 6 to 8 quarts of 
water for boiling and steaming or oil for deep-frying.
NICE-TO-HAVES
Baking sheets and wire cooling racks: When deep-frying dumplings, I like to lift 
them out of the oil and set them onto a wire rack set over a baking sheet to drain. 
Food processor: Some dough and filling recipes call for a food processor to mix 
them. Y ou can certainly achieve the final product by hand, but a food processor can 
save you time. The only downside is having to clean it.
Instant-read thermometer: If you are concerned about food safety, use an 
instant-read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your filling, espe-
cially when cooking raw ground meat. The cooked temperature should read 165°F 
(74°C). A thermometer can also read the correct temperature of frying oil when 
setting up for deep-frying dumplings.