43
 Boiled DumplingsTOFU AND CARROT WONTONS
Makes 24 wontons PreP  tiMe 1 hour 10 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
This plant-forward wonton is a lighter alternative to traditional wontons. Roasted car -
rots add sweetness and the hoisin sauce balances the Sichuan peppercorns for a satisfying 
flavor. Garnish with a drizzle of Chili Crisp Sauce (page 99) to serve.
5 or 6 medium carrots, cut 
into 2-inch chunks
3 garlic cloves, peeled
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Pinch kosher salt, plus 
1 tablespoon
4 ounces firm tofu, drained 
and cubed
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and roughly chopped
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
2 teaspoons hoisin sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/ 4 teaspoon ground Sich-
uan peppercorns
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, sliced
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry  
(see page 26)
Chili Crisp Sauce  
(page 99), for serving
Make it easier: Use peeled 
baby carrots, if you’re short 
on time.1. Make the filling: Preheat the oven to 425°F. Line a 
baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. On the prepared baking sheet, toss together the 
carrots, garlic, vegetable oil, and a pinch of salt. 
Roast for 15 to 25 minutes, or until browned and soft. 
Remove from the oven and let cool.
3. T ransfer the carrots to a food processor. Add the 
tofu, ginger, soy sauce, hoisin, sesame oil, and Sich-
uan pepper. Pulse to form a smooth paste.
4. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and stir in the 
scallions. Set aside.
5. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
6. Fold the wontons using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, 
and cook the dumplings for 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce 
the heat and simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or 
until they float. Using a spider, transfer the wontons 
to a warm platter.  
  VEGAN