44
 Dumplings for BeginnersMUSHROOM AND BAMBOO 
SHOOT DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 50 minutes, plus 30 minutes to cool  
Cook tiMe 25 minutes
This dumpling uses shiitake mushrooms for an earthy flavor and bamboo shoots for crunch. 
This recipe calls for shiitake and cremini mushrooms, but experiment with your favorite 
mushrooms. Use a vegetarian stir-fry sauce, like Lee Kum Kee’s, which is a great alternative 
to oyster sauce.
3 cups fresh shiitake 
mushrooms, stemmed 
and chopped
2 cups fresh cremini 
mushrooms, stemmed 
and chopped
1 (8-ounce) can bamboo 
shoots, drained 
and chopped
1 small shallot, chopped
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 tablespoons vegetarian 
stir-fry sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 tablespoons chopped 
fresh cilantro
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
1 tablespoon kosher salt
Mix it uP: These dumplings 
make fantastic potstickers. 
Fry them using the potsticker 
cooking method (see page 70) 
instead of boiling.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine the 
shiitake and cremini mushrooms, bamboo shoots, 
shallot, and ginger and pulse to form a coarse paste.
2. In a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat, 
heat the vegetable oil. Add the mushroom mixture, 
spread it into an even layer, and cook for 4 minutes, 
undisturbed. Stir and cook for 15 minutes more, or 
until most of the liquid has cooked off.
3. Stir in the stir-fry sauce and sesame oil and remove 
the skillet from the heat. T ransfer the mixture to a 
medium bowl, fold in the cilantro, and set aside to 
cool for about 30 minutes.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrappers with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
6. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling. 
 VEGETARIAN