46
 Dumplings for BeginnersTURKEY AND BLACK BEAN SAUCE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
The umami flavor of this dumpling comes from the black bean sauce, a staple in every Chi-
nese household pantry. A traditional filling would be made from ground pork. This recipe 
uses ground turkey for a lighter take on the classic filling.
5 ounces fresh baby 
spinach 
2/3 pound ground turkey
1/2-inch piece fresh 
ginger, peeled and 
roughly chopped
2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons black 
bean sauce
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilan-
tro leaves
Cooking tiP: Leftover 
Thanksgiving turkey works 
great for this filling. Just chop 
it up and mix in with the rest of 
the ingredients in step 1.1. Make the filling: In a skillet over medium heat, cook 
the spinach for 1 to 2 minutes, gently stirring, until it 
wilts. Remove from the heat and transfer to a bowl 
to cool. When cool enough to handle, squeeze out 
as much excess water as possible. Roughly chop the 
spinach and set aside. In a food processor, combine 
the turkey, ginger, and cornstarch and pulse to form a 
coarse paste. Add the wilted spinach and pulse to mix.
2. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and stir in the 
black bean sauce. Cover and refrigerate while you 
roll the dough, or up to 1 day.
3. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Parcel Fold (see page 29). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
6. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, 
cook for 7 to 8 minutes, then add 1 cup of cold water. 
Bring the water to a boil again and cook the dump-
lings for 7 to 8 minutes more. Reduce the heat and 
simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they 
float. Using a spider, transfer the dumplings to a 
warm platter. 
7. Garnish with cilantro to serve.