47
 Boiled DumplingsSPICY SHRIMP DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
The chili sauce in this filling gives these delicate shrimp dumplings a spicy kick. The chopped 
water chestnuts also add great texture to the filling. You can use Chili Crisp Sauce (page 99), 
but a store-bought sauce such as Lao Gan Ma works great, too.
2/3 pound shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
roughly chopped
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1 teaspoon soy sauce
1/ 4 teaspoon kosher salt, 
plus 1 tablespoon
Pinch ground white pepper
1/ 4 cup finely chopped water 
chestnuts
1 tablespoon Chili Crisp 
Sauce (page 99)
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Mix it uP: Use this filling with 
the Crystal Dumpling Dough 
(page 21) for a spicy twist on 
a classic.1. Make the filling: Set aside one-third of the chopped 
shrimp. In a food processor, combine the remaining 
chopped shrimp, cornstarch, rice wine, ginger, soy 
sauce, 1/ 4 teaspoon of salt, and white pepper. Pulse 
to form a smooth paste.
2. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and stir in 
the reserved shrimp, water chestnuts, and chili crisp 
sauce. Cover and refrigerate while you roll the dough, 
or up to 1 day.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.  
7. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, and 
cook for 4 to 5 minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer 
the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they float.