Basic Recipes 463-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Quick puff pastry
Makes about 600 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— weight, 
spoon and liquid measures and 
rolling pin.
* This is meant to be a 
quick puff pastry— also 
known as ‘flaky pastry’ or ‘demi-feulleté’— although 
it still takes about 2 hours to make. The conventional method requires a large piece of butter to be incorporated into the dough and takes an extra 2– 3 turns and resting 
periods. The quick method saves 1
½ hours overall.
* Once the pastry has been 
rolled out and cut into shapes, it can be wrapped and frozen ready for another day.
* It is important to note 
when using any puff pastry (homemade or commercially made) that when the cut pastry is ready to bake and it is being brushed with egg for glazing, the egg should not go over the edge of the pastry or it will act like a glue and prevent that spot from rising, producing a lopsided puff pastry shape.
* It is also vital that 
the dough is kept cold so the butter doesn’t melt and affect how flaky the pastry is.250 g plain flour
250 g butter, cut into 
5-mm dice
½ teaspoon salt
125 ml iced waterMethod:
1. place the flour on the work surface and make a well 
in the centre. add the butter and salt and begin to work the butter into the flour with your fingertips.
2. Once the butter is smaller in size but not fully 
incorporated, make another well in the flour and butter mixture and add the water. Gradually draw in the flour to make a dough which is homogenous yet still flecked with butter.
3. Lightly dust the work surface with flour and roll 
out the pastry to 40 cm x 20 cm.
4. Fold the 2 ends into the centre to make three 
layers, give the pastry a quarter turn and roll out again to 40 cm x 20 cm. Fold into 3 once more, wrap and refrigerate for 20 minutes.
5. Repeat this process 2 more times, then rest once 
more for at least 20 minutes in the fridge before using.
6. Wrap in plastic wrap and keep refrigerated for up 
to 3 days.