50
 Dumplings for BeginnersSHU MAI
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
Traditionally made with a pork and mushroom filling and garnished with a dab of cod roe, 
shu mai are small Cantonese dumplings found on dim sum menus around the world. This 
recipe uses minced carrot instead of fish roe to add a pop of color.
8 dried shiitake mush-
rooms, soaked in hot water 
for 15 minutes
4 ounces shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
finely chopped
8 ounces ground pork
2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon dark soy sauce
1 tablespoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 scallion, white and green 
parts, minced
1/2 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
1/ 4 cup minced carrot 
(optional)
Make it easier: If you can’t 
find round shu mai wrappers, 
choose square wonton 
wrappers and cut them into 
rounds with a 31/2-inch round 
cookie cutter.1. Make the filling: Drain the mushrooms, squeezing 
out the excess liquid. T rim off the stems and finely 
mince the caps. T ransfer to a medium bowl and add 
the shrimp, ground pork, cornstarch, sesame oil, soy 
sauce, rice wine, scallion, and white pepper. Stir to 
combine into a smooth paste.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
3. Gather the edge of the wrapper around the filling to 
form an open cup shape. With your dominant hand, 
make a circle using the tip of your thumb and index 
finger (the universal “okay” sign). Hug the dumpling 
inside the circle formed by your thumb and index 
finger and shape it into a tighter cup.
4. Holding the dumpling with your thumb and index 
finger, lightly tap the dumpling on the work surface 
to flatten the bottom.  The sides of the dumpling 
should stand straight up with an open top about 
11/2 inches across to expose the filling.
5. Garnish the center of the filling with minced carrot 
(if using). Place the dumpling into a steamer basket. 
Repeat the process with the remaining wrappers and 
filling. Y ou should be able to fit up to 12 dumplings 
in a 10-inch-wide steamer basket (you’ll need 
two baskets).