The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 476AvocAdos
There are close to 30 varieties of cultivated avocado, from the Anaheim to the Zutano, and 
each has specific qualities, tastes and oil content (from 12–25 per cent). Haas (the best quality), with its dark, pebbly-green skin, and Fuerte, with a smooth green skin, are the most common. The many others from around the world tend to have short seasons, but are worth sourcing when available. Avocado leaves can be slightly toasted in a pan, cooled then ground with a mortar and pestle to release their subtle fragrance of anise and hazelnuts. Use the crushed leaves in stews, chicken or fish dishes, and salads made with avocado.
Tips
* To check ripeness, gently press at the narrow, stalk end of the fruit, not at the 
bulbous, seed-filled end. This is where the fruit is most dense; if it is ripe, it should 
give when pressed at this end.
* To hasten ripening, place an avocado in a paper bag with a ripe apple (the slow release 
of ethylene from the apple initiates ethylene production in the avocado).
* Store ripe avocados in the fridge for 4–10 days—how long they last depends on the 
variety. As a general rule, the smooth, green-skinned varieties bruise more easily and do not store for as long as the rougher, dark-skinned avocados.
* To remove the seed, cut the avocado in half, give the seed a firm (not aggressive) hit 
with the knife blade, twist and pull. Either peel or use a large spoon to scoop out the flesh in one go.
* The flesh of an avocado inevitably browns after you’ve cut into it. To help prevent 
browning, brush with lemon or lime juice, mash and mix with more lemon or lime juice, or leave the seed in the half not being used, cover and refrigerate.
* Avocado flesh can be stored in the freezer for up to 2 months. 
BeAns
FREsH BEANs
So many beans, so little space. Beans are usually divided into 2 groups: those with edible pods and those where only the seeds are eaten (see also Dried Beans). Beans grow either on a bush or trained on a pole. Bush beans grow close to the ground and need no support, while pole beans are climbing, vine-like plants. Fresh beans are also known as ‘shelling beans’ in the US.
Types of fresh bean
Broad beans are best in the spring; out of season they tend to be mealy and dry, good only for soups and purees. Shell the beans and remove their outer skins. This skin toughens as the bean matures (sometimes becoming grey or even pink-tinged); so the older and larger the bean, the more likely you will want to remove it before eating. Cook first (approximately  3 minutes) then pop the beans out of the remaining skins. Young, tender, fresh beans can also be eaten raw. Mature beans (also known as ‘foules’) are often best pureed or dried. Also known as ‘fava beans’ in the US (although in many other countries fava refers exclusively to the dried bean), Windsor beans or horse beans.
Edible soy beans, known in Japan as ‘edamame’, are harvested as young green-shelled 
beans, before they mature into soy beans. In Japan, edamame are eaten as snacks and 