The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 477appetisers; the pods are boiled for 10 minutes before the bean is shelled. In China and 
other countries, the shelled soy beans are cooked with meat and vegetables in various dishes. The pods can be frozen (cooked or uncooked) for later use.
Green beans are many and varied, the most common being the string or French bean and 
the flat green bean. String beans are now bred with little or no sign of the chewy string of old, while flat green beans are tougher, larger and less palatable. The yellow bean, also known as ‘wax bean’ or ‘butter bean’ (not to be confused with the lima bean), is a varietal of the green bean with a delicate, tasty flavour, although it deteriorates faster than green beans. Also available is the purple bean which cooks green. Baby green beans are now sold in punnets. They are sweet and can be eaten raw.
Snake beans, also known as ‘Chinese long beans’, ‘asparagus beans’, ‘bodi beans’ and 
‘yard-long beans’, can be cut into lengths and cooked like normal green beans.
Wing beans are used in stir-fries and in soups and can be found at Asian grocers. They 
have four wings running the length of the bean. Always buy them fully green and crisp; older ones bend too easily and the wings turn brown and decay.
DrieD beans
Dried beans (also known as ‘shell-outs’) are pulses (see Legumes for a definition). They 
should be soaked for some hours, usually overnight, before cooking. The beans are soaked for 2 reasons: first, to speed up the cooking time; and secondly, because the flatulence often associated with eating beans can be attributed to the sugars in the bean that are water-soluble, so by soaking the beans and diluting the sugars, potent gases are reduced. 
How to soak D rieD beans
For long soaking, cover the dried beans with 3 times their volume of water and stand in the 
refrigerator for 12 hours or overnight. Drain.
For quick soaking, place the beans in a saucepan, cover with 3 times their volume of 
water and bring to the boil. Boil for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat, cover and stand for  1 hour. Drain.
Most dried beans take 1–1
½ hours to cook once they are soaked, or 15–30 minutes in a 
pressure cooker. Most beans can be cooked in the water they have soaked in, except soy, kidney beans and chickpeas which should be drained and cooked in fresh water as the soaking water retains bitterness from the beans. When cooking dried beans, it is recommended to add a dash of oil to reduce the amount of foaming.
If a recipe calls for cooked or canned beans when you have dried, or vice versa, here 
is a rule of thumb for replacing one with the other.
1 cup dried beans = about 3 cups cooked beans 500 g dried beans = 2
½ cups dried beans = about 7 ½ cups cooked beans 
400 g (14 oz) can beans = about 1 ½ cups drained beans 
540 g (19 oz) can beans = about 2 cups drained beans = approximately ¾ cup dried beans
Types of dried beanAzuki/adzuki beans are primarily grown for bean seeds, which in turn are used for soups, desserts and cake pastes and are the main ingredients in red bean paste and sweet bean paste. The young fresh bean pods can be eaten like snow peas.