The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 478Black beans, also known as ‘turtle beans’, are a small black-skinned bean used in 
stews, soups and salads; not to be confused with fermented black beans which are a type of 
soy bean. Black-eye beans are also known as ‘black-eyed peas’, ‘cornfield’, ‘turtle beans’, ‘Mexican beans’ and ‘valentines’. These earthy tasting beans cook in 1 hour and are a popular addition to dishes from the Caribbean, Mexico and the southern states of the US.
Borlotti beans have a distinct marking of pink or red streaks. They are available 
fresh but are more often used dried. With their hammy, nutty flavour, the dried beans are a great salad and soup bean, while the fresh beans are wonderful in pasta. Sometimes called ‘cranberry beans’ or ‘Roman’ or ‘Romano beans’.
Lima beans or butter beans are the favourites of Rabbit in Winnie-the-Pooh and a must-
have ingredient for the side dish succotash. This flat, kidney-shaped bean has a buttery texture and flavour.
Marrow beans are said to taste of bacon (I can neither confirm nor deny this claim). 
They swell considerably after cooking so make a great salad bean; also good as a puree or in soups.
Red kidney beans are so named for their shape. They have a full flavour and mealy 
texture and are often used in salads.
Runner beans are available fresh or dried. They are quite large (although may take less 
than 1 hour to cook) so can be served braised or stewed as a dish on their own, where a slow-cooking method suits.
Soy beans have a higher protein content (35 per cent) than other beans. Dried soy beans 
contain an enzyme inhibitor that can make them indigestible so they should be soaked for 24 hours (change the water every 8 hours) then cooked in fresh water for 3–4 hours. Once cooked, they have a silky-smooth texture but little flavour, although they can be enhanced by adding flavours such as onion, tomato, rosemary, soy sauce, garlic or thyme in the last hour of cooking. I personally prefer eating soy beans in their many other forms (fresh, sprouts, bean curds, sauces) to avoid this long drawn-out process of cooking the dried bean. 
Fermented black beans (also known as ‘salted black beans’, ‘Chinese black beans’ or 
‘ginger black beans’) are black soy beans that have been cooked, innoculated with a mould and fermented in their cooking brine for about 6 months then partially dried. The better quality brands are then flavoured with Chinese five-spice powder, orange zest and ginger. The beans now have a salty soy taste and a firm, pliable texture, and will last indefinitely in the cupboard. Once opened, they can be stored for months in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Although some recipes recommend soaking and/or rinsing the beans to reduce their saltiness, this is frowned on by Chinese chefs.
White beans is a general term that describes cannellini, great northern beans, haricot 
beans (also known as ‘navy beans’ or ‘Boston beans’) and the white bean itself. Any of these can be interchanged in recipes. 
Bean flakes are similar to instant rolled oats in that they cook very quickly into a 
paste. They are ideal in soups or as a side dish or puree.