The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 482Types of chocolaTe
Bittersweet chocolate is the chef’s choice for desserts because of its stronger flavour. It 
contains more cocoa liquor (at least 35 per cent) than semi-sweet and sweet chocolate (semi-sweet contains 15
–35 per cent and unsweetened chocolate is pure cocoa liquor) and less added 
sugar.
Cacao is the fruit from which the cacao bean is extracted. Although the words ‘cacao’ 
and ‘cocoa’ are often used interchangeably to describe products derived from the cacao tree, ‘cacao’ ought only to refer to the tree and the bean it produces, while ‘cocoa’ refers to the products derived from them
—butter, powder, liquor, etc. The cacao bean is made up of 
54 per cent cacao butter, 11.5 per cent protein, 9 per cent starch, 5 per cent water, and hundreds of other elements like theobromine, caffeine and aromatic oils. Cacao beans are processed in a similar way to coffee beans.
Cocoa butter is created during the chocolate-making process. It determines the 
viscosity of chocolate (the best chocolates have a higher percentage, 33
–40 per cent, of 
cocoa butter). It can be bought separately and used to thin chocolate. Cocoa butter is also an important ingredient in pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
Cocoa powder is a product derived from the cacao bean during the chocolate-making 
process. Cocoa liquor and cocoa butter are extracted from the cacao bean, and the dry cake that remains after pressing is ground into cocoa powder. Cocoa powder is mildly acidic and can be bought as low-fat and medium-fat. Drinking cocoa or drinking chocolate contains cocoa powder, sugar, malt extracts, milk powder, lecithin and vanilla. It is used in sweetened chocolate drink mixes. Dutch cocoa was invented by Coenraad Johannes van Houten in the Netherlands. It is cocoa powder that has been alkalised to leave a darker, smoother, less bitter and more soluble powder. If a recipe calls for Dutch cocoa and all you have is ordinary cocoa powder, add a very small amount of baking powder when sifting the cocoa. This will help alkalise the mix.
Compound chocolate, manufactured as a cheap alternative to chocolate, is made with 
vegetable oil and cocoa powder instead of cocoa liquor. It melts at a higher temperature, making it manageable for the novice cook. It is sometimes called ‘compound chocolate coating’, ‘decorators’ chocolate’ or ‘confectioners’ chocolate’.
Couverture means ‘covering’, which is its intent. It is a chocolate made to coat 
truffles, cakes and sweets, but is used by anyone who knows their chocolate for all manner of cooking. Its high cocoa butter content gives couverture its characteristic viscosity (the cocoa butter thins the chocolate to a smooth, glossy and quite runny texture compared with poorly made or cheaper styles of chocolate which when melted stay quite firm). It can be replaced with dark chocolate or compound chocolate, but neither will guarantee the excellent results gained from couverture. 
Dark chocolate is sweetened but has no added milk solids. (This is the chocolate you 
might have stolen from your dad’s private stash as a child, only to decide that, if it isn’t milk chocolate, it isn’t chocolate at all.) Dark chocolates range from bittersweet and semi-sweet to sweet. 
German chocolate has nothing to do with Germany. It was formulated in 1852 by Samuel 
German, to make life easier for bakers by adding more sugar to the chocolate, and is seen as the predecessor to bittersweet chocolate. 
Mexican chocolate has added cinnamon, sugar and sometimes nuts and is used for hot 
drinks and mole sauce. For homemade Mexican chocolate
—combine, 1 tablespoon cocoa powder, 
½ teaspoon caster sugar and ¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon. Makes the equivalent of 30 g 
Mexican chocolate.