The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 483Milk chocolate or sweet chocolate is rarely used in cooking, as the added milk solids 
can interfere with baked goods. However, it can be used successfully in a mousse. 
Semi-sweet chocolate is similar to bittersweet chocolate, but contains less cocoa 
liquor (15 –35 per cent). An excellent cooking chocolate for good domestic cooks in the know. 
(Sweet chocolate has more sugar.)
Unsweetened chocolate or bitter chocolate is made with 100 per cent cocoa liquor and 
is bitter and not to be eaten straight from the pantry. It is favoured by professional 
bakers, as they have more control over the quantities of sugar, etc. in the final product. If necessary, unsweetened chocolate can be replaced with cocoa powder (not drinking chocolate). For homemade unsweetened chocolate
—mix together 1 tablespoon vegetable oil and 
3 tablespoons cocoa powder. Makes the equivalent of 30 g unsweetened chocolate.
White chocolate is made from what’s leftover after the cocoa liquor has been removed, 
so contains only cocoa butter, sugar, milk solids and vanilla. Different brands contain varying amounts of cocoa butter, and some contain none at all. As a rule of thumb, those made with cocoa butter are ivory-coloured, while those with little or none are a brighter white. All white chocolate must be melted at very low temperatures to keep it from scorching and turning lumpy. 
AlternAtives to chocolA te
Interchange different styles of chocolate with caution, as the properties of each type will 
react differently. 
Carob, the most commonly used alternative, is the fruit of the carob tree (technically 
a legume) which humans have been harvesting for some 5000 years. It is very high in sucrose (40 per cent) and other sugars (up to 70 per cent). Carob is ground into a cocoa-like powder, roasted or left raw, and is used for drinks and in baking. Carob bars and chips are used for cooking, and the pod can be boiled in water to produce a thick, syrup-like molasses. Carob is used as an alternative to chocolate as it contains a third of the calories, is almost fat-free (chocolate is half fat), is high in pectin, and it doesn’t interfere with the absorption of calcium (as chocolate does). It is also caffeine-free so the seeds can be roasted and made into a coffee substitute. Carob can be substituted measure for measure with chocolate, but it has a milder flavour so play with the recipe, perhaps adding more carob to compensate.