The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 484Corn
Corn, as in sweet corn, whole-kernel corn, corn on the cob or maize, is best cooked and 
eaten immediately after harvesting. As corn ages, the sugars rapidly break down into starches and flavour is lost. Only buy corn with a full husk; corn that is presented with the tops cut off or packaged with no husk at all will be old and starchy. If you intend to grill corn, first soak the ears, husk and all, in water for a couple of hours. Cook in the husk on the grill, turning regularly, then remove the husk (shuck) when it’s done. Corn can be boiled with its husk on or off, then either eaten immediately or cooled and stripped of the juicy kernels for salads, fritters or succotash. 
The sweet corn plant (part of the maize family) is a type of grass, the cobs are the 
seed heads, the largest of any grass type, edible or inedible. An edible fungus that grows on corn stalks (a strange, purplish growth) is considered a delicacy by some. Baby corn is not young sweet corn but a different variety.
Cream 
The different types of cream sold in different countries and used in recipe books around the world can be one of the more frustrating things to deal with as a cook (or a tourist). Essentially, it is the fat content in cream that affects the final outcome of a dish. As the European, American, South African, Australian and New Zealand dairy fraternities continue to churn creams with differing fat contents and use different marketing names, it can be decidedly challenging to guarantee a perfect result. The list I’ve provided attempts to explain the main types of cream. My advice is to understand the recipe that the cream is to be used in and work out whether it needs a low, medium or high fat content, and whether it’s required for whipping, pouring or for use as is.
Types of cream
Clotted cream is made from rich, unpasteurised milk that is heated to 85°C for about 1 hour. 
In this time, yellow clots of coagulated cream form on top of the milk. This rich cream with a fat content of 55 per cent is also known as ‘Devonshire cream’. It can be used as a substitute for qaimaaq.
Crème fraîche is a naturally soured cream (also known as ‘racreme’, and 
‘clabber’/‘clabbered cream’). It doesn’t curdle when heated, which is why it is used for cream-based sauces. It is easy to make at home. For homemade crème fraîche
—mix 1 cup 
whipping cream with ½ cup sour cream or 2 tablespoons buttermilk and pour into a glass bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and leave on the kitchen bench for 8
–14 hours (until set). 
Stir and refrigerate. It will last for 7 –10 days in the fridge.
Double cream, generally speaking, has a fat content of 45 –48 per cent. (Note that UK 
cookbooks ask for double cream when they want a pure cream of 30–35 per cent fat content: you’ll just have to see whether the recipe works and if not, try a different cream next time.)
Double cream with a high fat content can be whipped but be mindful that it is easy to 
overwhip, becoming grainy in texture and looking somewhat separated. To help prevent this try adding 15 ml milk to every 300 ml double cream before whipping.
Extra thick single cream is an English product made from single cream (18 per cent fat) 
which has been homogenised, pasteurised and then cooled. This cream which cannot be whipped is a thick spooning cream similar to Australian double cream. 