The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 485Half and half is half milk and half cream. It is an American product that is not 
readily available elsewhere, but you can make your own by using equal parts milk and pouring 
cream. It cannot be whipped as it contains only 12 per cent fat.
Pouring cream is an Australian product, the equivalent of single cream (with a minimum 
of 18 per cent fat) in the UK and light cream (18 –30 per cent fat) in the US. It can also be 
called ‘pure cream’, ‘coffee cream’ and ‘table cream’.
Qaimaaq is a type of cream that is also known as ‘breakfast cream’. If necessary, 
substitute with clotted cream.
Sour cream is cream that has been soured with lactic acid bacteria. The degree of 
sourness varies between countries—if you’re from Ireland, you may like it very sour; if from the US, quite mild. It can be made at home, using buttermilk or yoghurt as the starter. The recipe can be varied, but try the following. For homemade sour cream
—mix 250 ml cream  
(18–36 per cent fat, no additives) with approximately 
2 tablespoons or 50 ml yoghurt or buttermilk and leave in a bowl overnight or for 
24 hours in a warm area while the mixture sets. Depending on how thick you like it, use immediately or strain through muslin cloth or cheesecloth for several hours until the desired thickness. 
Sterilised cream (23
–28 per cent fat), also known as ‘manufacturer’s cream’ or ‘ultra 
sterilised cream’, is heat-treated which results in a caramelised flavour. This European product, sold in tins or Tetra Paks, cannot be whipped but is spoonable enough to accompany desserts. If unavailable, use pouring cream instead. 
Thickened cream is an Australian product, about 35 per cent fat, which contains a 
thickener such as halal gelatine or vegetable gum. These thickeners are added to stabilise the cream when whipped. Sometimes mineral salts are also added. Use when your British cookbooks call for whipping cream (35
–38 per cent fat) and American cookbooks call for heavy 
cream or heavy whipping cream (35 –42 per cent fat).
Tips for whipping cream:
* Chill the bowl you plan to use in the refrigerator. This ensures the cream stays chilled 
and reduces the chance of it separating.
* Expect cream to increase in volume by 2 –2½ times when whipped. To gain maximum volume, 
begin the whipping process at a slower speed, and increase the speed as the cream begins to thicken.
* If the cream begins to turn yellow, it has begun to overwhip and separate. Try mixing in 
more cream with a spatula until combined. If the cream is too far gone, however, your only hope is to turn it into butter and buttermilk
—continue whipping until the milk solids have 
separated from the milk fat.
* Add sugar to whipped cream when tracks begin to form. This helps to maximise its volume.
* To make cream lighter, add a dash of milk to the final stages of whipping. This mixture 
will not stand for as long.