The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 487Egg sizEs
 weight  size
jumbo, very large or extra large more than 73 g  0–1
large 63–73 g  1–3
medium 53–63 g  3–5
small or pee wee less than 53 g  5–7
How to cook Eggs Omelette is probably the only egg dish that should be cooked at a high heat. All other egg 
dishes should be cooked at moderate temperatures so as not to make the white turn rubbery. (Omelettes cook so quickly that the whites don’t have time to react in this manner.) 
For the perfect hard-boiled egg, without the nasty grey rim around the yolk, try this 
method. Place room temperature eggs in a pot of cold water and bring to the boil. Set the timer for 8 minutes from the moment the water begins to simmer. The water should never actually boil, just simmer. (Note that egg protein is delicate and should be cooked gently; boiling eggs makes the yolks hard and the whites rubbery.) When cooked, pour off the water, and place in plenty of cold water to halt the cooking process. For easy peeling, tap the eggs all over to crack the shell and place back in the cold water. Fresh eggs are always much harder to peel than older eggs, and chunks of the white will often come away. See boiled egg for more hard-boiled egg ideas.
For coddled or soft-boiled eggs for dipping toast soldiers, try this—bring plenty 
of water to simmering point. You can add salt and vinegar to help prevent the eggs from cracking. Use room temperature eggs, not eggs straight from the fridge (again to prevent cracking). Cook for 3, 4 or 5 minutes depending on how soft an egg you desire. See boiled egg for more soft-boiled egg ideas.
Scrambled eggs should be cooked over gentle heat with a bit of patience, otherwise 
you’ll end up with a hard, rubbery mass of weeping egg. Mix the eggs with water, milk, cream or (if you’re feeling decadent) mascarpone. Use a ratio of 1 egg to 1 tablespoon liquid. Add herbs towards the end of cooking. See scrambled egg for more scrambled egg ideas.
For poached eggs, there’s one true secret to producing the golf ball/comet-looking eggs 
found in the best breakfast joints around the world: freshness. The fresher the egg, the better the egg white will cling to the yolk. You can help this along by creating a whirlpool effect in the pot of simmering water and releasing the egg into the centre of the vortex. Adding salt or vinegar to the water may also help the whites to become firm. But at the end of the day, these tricks are irrelevant if the egg is not as fresh as possible. If you place an egg into the water and you find the white floats and disperses on the top while the yolk sinks to the bottom with merely a tail of white intact, chances are this egg is reasonably old and hardly worth eating.
For fried eggs, heat butter over medium heat until it begins to bubble, then turn the 
heat down, break in the eggs and cover the pan. The lid will enclose the steam which slowly cooks the whites on the surface. (I despise a crispy underside to my fried eggs. Heston Blumenthal, ‘the alchemist of British cooking’, separates the yolk from the white, gently fries the white, then adds the yolk towards the end of cooking—a great method that works well but isn’t always practical.)