The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 489Other types O f egg
Eggs for cooking are most commonly those from hens. Eggs from other birds tend to be recipe 
specific and are rarely interchangeable.
Duck eggs (available from Asian grocers) can be used in many recipes that specify hens’ 
eggs, but the flavour is stronger, oilier and richer, and not to everybody’s taste. The flavour, naturally, is a cross between duck meat and egg. Duck eggs are also larger, so do not substitute 1 duck egg for 1 hen’s egg. Duck egg whites cannot be whisked successfully as they lack globulin, a protein that, when whisked, holds air bubbles. In Vietnam, fertile duck eggs are incubated until the foetal stage then boiled for 15 minutes and eaten with ginger, Vietnamese mint and soy sauce.
Quail eggs are readily available from poultry shops as well as some supermarkets. These 
delicately flavoured little eggs can be brutal on your patience if you have to boil and peel them, as the shell is delicate and somewhat elastic. If poaching or frying, always cut the top off them rather than cracking them in the middle like a hen’s egg, and pour onto a shallow dish or saucer before placing in the pan. Quail eggs take about 2 minutes to poach. When boiling quail eggs, swirl the water for half the cooking time to centre the egg yolk. They will take 3–4 minutes to hard boil.
Thousand-year eggs are not a thousand years old, because that would be just silly. 
There are three varieties: hulidan, dsaudan and pidan. For pidan eggs, duck’s or hen’s eggs are coated in a clay-like plaster of red earth, garden lime, salt, wood ash and tea. Once coated in this alkaline mud, they are buried in soil for 100 days to cure. The eggs can be eaten raw—usually with soy and ginger—or cooked after the coating is removed (scrape off and wash under running water). The flavour resembles lime and pungent ammonia. As for the colour, the whites turn amber to black and have a gelatinous texture and the yolk is dark-green with a creamy texture. Hulidan eggs are covered with a mix of salt and clay or ash and left in a cool, dark space for 1 month. When opened, the eggs have a partly solidified white and yolk with a salty flavour. Dsaudan eggs are packed in a mixture of salt and cooked rice and then stored for a minimum of 6 months, in which time the shell will soften and the insides will coagulate, producing an egg that is mildly salty and winey tasting. Also known as century eggs, hundred-year eggs, fermented eggs, ancient eggs or Ming dynasty eggs.
AlternAtives tO  eggs
Eggs act as a binding agent in recipes which makes it hard to find an exact replacement with 
equal properties.
‘Egg replacer’ is a powdered leavening agent made from toasted soy flour, wheat starch, 
lecithin, dextrose and guar gum. It is made to use measure for measure instead of whole eggs in baking: 10 g powder mixed with 40 g water = 1 egg.
For savoury dishes, the tofu-based products mock egg salad, imitation scrambled eggs 
and egg-free mayonnaise might be appropriate.
Not enough eggs for baking? Replace every third egg with 1 tablespoon cornflour. For 
recipes with 3 or more eggs, egg replacer is the best option. For recipes using 1 egg, use egg replacer or one of the following: 1 tablespoon soy flour mixed with 1 tablespoon water; ¼ cup ripe mashed banana or apple or prune puree; 3 tablespoons mashed tofu; or 1 teaspoon ground flaxseed mixed with 3 tablespoons water.
‘Egg cream’ contains neither eggs nor cream, but rather milk, chocolate and seltzer 
or soda water. It is a drink asked for in New York. When made with love, the froth on top resembles beaten egg whites. 