The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 490Fats
Essential fatty acids (EFA) are essential to human health but our bodies can’t make them 
so they must be supplied through food or supplements. The two vital EFAs are omega-6 and omega-3 (see polyunsaturated and superunsaturated fats). EFAs are highly perishable, deteriorating rapidly when exposed to light, air, heat and metals, so they cannot be dried, powdered or stored for long periods. To get the most out of EFAs, choose fresh products.
Monounsaturated fats are good for us and should be included in our diet. Foods rich in 
mono unsaturated fatty acids are generally liquid at room temperature and semi-solid when refrigerated (for example, olive oil). Other foods high in mono unsaturated fatty acids include peanuts, pecans, cashews, macadamias, avocados and canola oil.
Polyunsaturated fats, also known as omega-6 EFAs, are the good guys and are found in 
grapeseed, corn, cottonseed, pumpkin, sesame, soy and walnut oils, and in safflower, sunflower and hemp (which have the highest EFA reading). However, polyunsaturated fats can be harmful when commercially processed.
Saturated fats are bad because they clog your arteries. Found especially in butter, 
eggs, beef, lamb, chicken and pork, saturated fats become especially harmful when prepared with high heat, that is, barbecued, fried, grilled or cooked at a temperature over 105°C. Cooked at low temperatures, saturated fats are less harmful. All oils and fats contain some saturated fatty acids—some other foods with high levels are palm kernels (88 per cent), coconut, cocoa butter and shea nut butter. Of course, these fats also provide flavour which is why it’s a good idea to cook the chicken with the skin on, or the steak with the fat left on, to keep the food moist and flavoursome, then remove the skin and fat before serving (before it goes on the plate, to avoid temptation).
Superunsaturated fats are often referred to as omega-3 EFAs and they’re another of the 
good guys. They are harder to come by than omega-6, but the richest source is flaxseed. They are also found in tuna, salmon and trout and in blackcurrant seed oil. In land animals, the brain, eyeballs, adrenal glands and testes are rich in superunsaturated fatty acids. 
Trans fatty acids are the really evil ones. They are the result of a chemical 
alteration, or trans formation, that converts ‘natural’ unsaturated fats into ‘unnatural’ unsaturated fats that act like saturated fats. However, trans fatty acids are worse for you than saturated fats because they interfere with the work that the natural essential fatty acids must do. Margarines, shortenings, shortening oils, and hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated vegetable oils contain a large amount of trans fat. Salad oils, butter, milk and meats generally have small amounts of trans fatty acids.
Vegetable fat is sold in a block form like butter and is generally used to replace 
butter in baking (although some are produced as solid oils for frying). Its use varies depending on the brand. Trex (UK) is used to replace butter in vegan cooking, especially baking. (When replacing butter with Trex, use 20 per cent less than the specified amount of butter, as Trex contains no water.)