The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 491Fish
Fish and other seafood have such a staggering variety of species that they would have 
to be at the top of the list when it comes to the confusion surrounding names. On an international level, it becomes far more confusing, as each country and their respective cookbook authors call on seafood native to that region. To supply a universal dictionary of the names of all fish caught globally would be a mammoth task: even fishing bodies struggle to standardise a market name for each of their own country’s species, let alone collaborate to solve international naming frustrations. So although I have listed many of the more common alternative names for crustaceans and fish in this book, this general advice is probably the most useful: when using foreign cookbooks or travelling overseas, the key is to establish what kind of texture and flavour the recipe requires. Is it firm-fleshed or flaky, lean or oily, flat or round? (See below for a discussion of these categories.) Then ask for a fish with these specific qualities at the local market or fish shop rather than struggling with unfamiliar names.
The two main categories of fresh fish are flatfish and round fish. Flatfish are bottom-
dwellers which swim parallel to the ocean floor. The side that faces down is pale, while the upper side is dark and contains both eyes. Species include flounder, sole, brill, turbot (halibut) and plaice. You usually lose about 50 per cent of a whole flatfish in cleaning, preparation and removal of inedible parts; while the waste ratio of round fish is higher (60 per cent) due to the larger head. Flatfish are lean, and the best of them is probably the halibut (the largest flat fish in the world).
Round fish are, as the name suggests, rounder in shape, and have eyes on either side of 
the head. They are then divided into a further three categories of lean, moderate and high fat content. The higher the fat content, the darker, firmer and more distinctively flavoured the flesh becomes. ‘High’ fat means on average 12–14 per cent, although in eel it can be as high as 30 per cent. Fish in this category include butterfish, mackerel, tuna, salmon and sardines (pilchards). Fish species with lean fat content tend to carry their oil in the liver rather than the flesh. At about 2.5 per cent fat, lean fish are mild in flavour and lightly coloured. Fish in this category include red fish, snapper, bream, garfish and perch.
Fish with moderate fat content (6 per cent or less) include swordfish, whiting, ocean 
trout and barramundi.
Tips for buying fish:
* Use your eyes—and nose. First, look at the fish: you want to see bright, clear and often 
protruding eyes and a shiny, bright-coloured skin. The gills should be red to bright pink 
(as a fish ages, its gills turn to a light pink, then grey and finally to a greenish or dull brown). The outer skin should be firm to press and, if it hasn’t been scaled, it will have a natural film or slime. Your fish (and fish shop) should smell of the ocean, without any strong smell of overt fishiness or of ammonia.
* Ask the fishmonger to gut (draw) and scale (dress) the fish for you. This can save not only 
time but an unbelievable mess. A fully dressed fish usually means gutted and scaled, with gills, head, fins and tail removed.
* When buying fish fillets or cutlets, look for cleanly cut, firm, elastic, shiny, translucent 
flesh. Any fillets that appear dull and watery may well be old or defrosted. Fillets with drying or browned edges are not acceptable.
* Frozen fish should be bought tightly wrapped. If you notice freezer burns after 
unwrapping, take it back.