52
 Dumplings for BeginnersXIAO LONG BAO
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 3 hours for soup; 40 minutes for dumplings  
Cook  tiMe 20 minutes
Your local butcher shop should have most of the ingredients for this classic soup dumpling, 
but try an Asian supermarket if you’re having trouble finding chicken feet or pork bones. 
The process of making these dumplings is more involved, but the juicy dumplings at the end 
are so worth it!
For the souP
8 ounces skin-on pork 
belly, halved
1 pound pork bones
8 ounces chicken feet
1 bunch scallions, 
white and green parts, 
roughly chopped
4-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and thinly sliced
2 tablespoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon kosher salt
For the Filling
2/3 pound ground pork
2 scallions, white and green 
parts, minced
1 garlic clove, minced
2 teaspoons sesame oil
2 teaspoons light soy sauce
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1/2 teaspoon sugar
Pinch ground white pepper1. Make the soup: One to two days in advance, in 
a medium stockpot, combine the pork belly and 
enough water to cover. Bring to a boil, then remove 
from the heat. Rinse the meat with cold water. Halve 
the pork belly lengthwise and separate the meat 
from the skin. Scrape the fat from the skin and slice 
the skin into 1/ 4-inch strips. T rim the fat from the 
belly and cut the belly into 1/2-inch chunks.
2. In a stockpot, combine the cooked and sliced pork 
skin and belly, pork bones, chicken feet, scallions, 
ginger, rice wine, and 8 cups of cold water to cover. 
Bring to a boil over high heat, skimming off the foam 
occasionally. Boil for 5 minutes, then reduce the heat 
to medium and simmer for about 1 hour to  1 hour 
30 minutes, or until the stock reduces to 2 cups. 
Season with salt.
3. Strain the stock into a 9-by-13-inch baking dish, dis-
carding the solids. Let cool on the counter for 1 hour, 
then transfer to the refrigerator to chill completely, 
preferably overnight. The stock will become jelly 
when chilled. Keep covered until ready to use.
4. Make the filling: In a medium bowl, combine 
the ground pork, scallions, garlic, sesame oil, soy 
sauce, rice wine, sugar, and white pepper. Gently 
stir the ingredients in one direction until thor -
oughly combined.