The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 492* Frozen seafood can, in some cases, be superior in quality to fresh. After being caught, 
fish to be sold fresh is held on fishing trawlers in ice slurries or in chilled sea water 
at 0°C. It could be days before it reaches the shop, while fish which is sold as frozen is ‘snap’ or ‘fast’ frozen on the ship so it doesn’t run the same risk of being overhandled, bruised or deteriorating in quality.
How to cook fisH
Fish is a delicate protein that I associate with egg white. In their raw state, both fish 
and egg white are translucent protein. Apply heat and both react in the same way: they change colour (from translucent to opaque) and texture (becoming firm). However, there the similarities end, as egg white can be cooked for a lengthy period and will still be quite edible, while fish needs to be monitored closely so it doesn’t become dry and tough. The proteins in fish need to only just set: the juices change from clear to white and the flesh becomes opaque but remains moist. If you continue to cook beyond this point, the fish will begin to ‘bleed’: the juices are forced from the flesh, leaving blobs of white protein on the surface of the cooked fish. The more juices forced from the flesh, the drier the meat you are left with.
Cooking fish in the microwave is asking for trouble, as the risk of overcooking is high. 
There are better ways. 
For the best results with defrosted fish, cook while it is still icy (before it starts 
to drip). Follow the recipe as if the fish were fresh but give it a longer cooking time—as much as 25 per cent more—and allow for it having a little extra moisture.
storage and preparation
Fresh fish is said to have a shelf life of 12 days from the moment it is caught, provided 
it is stored at 0°C, which should mean you have about 7 days with it. However, as most refrigerators sit on 4°C this cuts shelf life back to about 3–4 days after purchase. 
Be aware that the entrails of freshly caught or whole uncleaned fish decay faster than 
the flesh, which means you run the risk of spoiling your catch if you don’t clean it before storing.
Use a sharp pair of poultry scissors to trim the dorsal and tail fins from the body of 
the fish. This prevents them from burning if the fish is cooked near or over a naked flame.
When filleting flatfish at home, remove the fillets from the pale or white side first. This 
will make taking the fillets from the darker side easier. 
Frozen raw fish lasts about 6 months in the freezer. Defrost the fish, covered, in a 
refrigerator. This takes about 24 hours. Once defrosted, it does not have the tight, firm flesh characteristic of fresh fish and in some cases may be waterlogged or seem like a dish sponge, so take account of this when you are deciding what to cook with it.
Never re-freeze fish: it will cause the flesh to break down, go watery and lose flavour, 
and it poses a greater risk of food poisoning when the fish is defrosted the second time. 