The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 493Flour
Flour is classified by its extraction rate, which is the percentage of wheat grain present 
in the flour. At the top end, coming in at 100 per cent, is wholemeal flour, with brown flour around 80–85 per cent, followed by plain flour at 75–80 per cent. The protein content determines how the flour performs during baking, as it is the protein that forms gluten. Generally speaking, bread and pasta is made with flour with a high protein content or hard flour (11–14 per cent) (in the case of pasta, this is because pasta dough must be rolled very thin which is easier with the elasticity of high-gluten flour); while cake-making or soft flour has a low protein content (7–10 per cent). Cakes or biscuits made with high-gluten flour will be chewier, especially if the dough or batter is mixed excessively. Vigorous mixing of any flour-based recipe (whether hard or soft) will work the gluten, which is why some recipes for scones, sponges, short pastry, etc. suggest mixing as lightly as possible. The protein content of flour is marked on the packet.
Tips:
* Sift flour two or three times before mixing with other ingredients. This aerates the 
mixture, as well as removing any lumps or foreign matter. Aerating ensures that the final 
product is given every chance of being light and fluffy.
* Add the sifted flour to the wet mixture, not the other way around. Use a metal spoon or a 
rubber or plastic spatula to fold the flour into the mixture. This cutting and folding also ensures the final mixture retains as much of the air as possible.
* If you find small brown insects (psocids or booklice, often mistaken for weevils) in your 
flour, dispose of it immediately. To avoid these little pests, buy smaller quantities of flour and store in an airtight container in a dry, cool place. Humidity can wreak havoc on dry goods in the tropics, so try storing flour products in the fridge, but remember that keeping them airtight is the key.
* Plain flours have a shelf life of 6–9 months if stored correctly. Wholemeal or brown 
flour’s shelf life is considerably less due to its fat content, so 2–3 months is recommended. 
Types of flour
In the following list of flours, w-f indicates wheat-free and g-f indicates gluten-free.
Amaranth flour (w-f, g-f) is made from the tiny seeds of amaranth, a plant that is related to 
spinach and beetroot (beets). (The leaves of the plant are also edible.) Amaranth flour is not designed for making leavened breads, as the result is too dense, but is great for flat breads, pasta, biscuits (cookies), pancakes and muffins. 
Arrowroot flour (w-f, g-f)—also called ‘arrowroot starch’ or simply ‘arrowroot’—is 
made from the arrowroot, Maranta arundinacea (although some varieties are made from plants such as banana, potato or tropical roots). It is higher in fibre than all other starches, by as much as 25 per cent, yet is still smooth, and has 1½  times the thickening power of plain flour. It’s great in baking and as a thickener, where it mixes clear, not cloudy (which is handy to know if thickening a clear liquid) and is often better than cornflour because it doesn’t impart a chalky taste if undercooked. Like all starches, mix arrowroot with a little cold water first to make a wet paste before adding it to the hot liquid. 
Barley flour (w-f) is made from barley and although barley contains gluten, the gluten 
is quite weak, so mix it with wheat flour when baking. For bread, a good ratio is to make the barley flour 25 per cent of the mixture. For other baking, mix 50/50 with other flours.