The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 494Bean flour (w-f, g-f) can be used to make pasta, crepes and flat breads, and some 
traditional Middle Eastern dishes.
Besan flour (w-f, g-f) —also known as ‘garbanzo flour’, ‘gram flour’ and ‘chickpea 
flour’—is made from finely milled chickpeas or pigeon peas (chana dhal or bengal gram). Used 
extensively in Indian cuisine as a batter, it also makes an excellent binding and thickening 
agent as well as panisses (chickpea fritters), breads, dips and desserts.
Bleached flour is whiter and contains less vitamin E than unbleached. Use it exactly as 
you do unbleached flour.
Buckwheat flour (w-f, g-f) is also known as ‘Indian wheat’. Pancakes and soba noodles 
are two well-known products made from buckwheat flour. Although the word ‘wheat’ appears in its name, buckwheat is totally wheat- and gluten-free.
Cake flour is a US product not readily available on European and Australasian 
supermarket shelves. Cake flour is made from soft wheat with as little as 9 per cent protein compared to the 10–12 per cent in plain flour and 12–14 per cent in strong flour. It is bleached with chlorine gas, which, besides whitening the flour, also makes it slightly acidic. This acidity makes cakes set faster and gives them a finer texture. If a recipe calls for the use of cake flour or soft wheat flour, use plain flour but substitute 10 per cent of the quantity with cornflour or potato flour. This will help soften the mixture.
Cassava flour (w-f, g-f) is made from the tuberous root of the cassava and is used to 
create tapioca products. For tapioca, a starch, the fibre element of cassava (approximately 12 per cent) has been removed. Pearl tapioca and tapioca flour are used as thickeners in soups and sauces or used in desserts. Tapioca flour can be used to make gluten-free bread, where it imparts a chewy texture. 
Chestnut flour (w-f, g-f) is a sweet flour used in desserts and batters. It should be 
fresh if it smells of chestnuts. Do not substitute with water chestnut flour, found in Asian grocers, which is used as a thickening and binding agent or to make water chestnut crackers. 
Cornflour (w-f, although many brands are made with wheat so check the labels before 
buying, g-f) has a very fine texture and is used as a thickener or in baking to lighten the texture of a product. It is known as ‘cornstarch’ in the US, and should not be confused with cornmeal.
Durum wheat flour is a hard wheat flour used to make pasta and noodles. (‘Hard’ in this 
case doesn’t refer to the level of gluten or protein but to the physical properties of the wheat which splinters when ground.) It is also referred to as ‘durum wheat semolina’, ‘fine ground semolina’ or ‘continental flour’. See also Semolina flour.
Gluten, while not a type of flour, is a substance found in wheat flour which affects the 
elasticity and texture of a dough. Some people require a gluten-free diet, most often those who are diagnosed with coeliac disease, also known as gluten-sensitive enteropathy. They must avoid wheat, oats, rye and barley, among other products. 
Gluten flour, made by the removal of the starch and the bran, can be added to plain flour 
to boost its gluten level so it resembles strong flour (see below).
Gluten-free flour is sold commercially. This flour is usually made from wheat with the 
gluten removed, so is often not suitable for people with wheat allergies. See also Gluten. 
Graham flour is a US product similar to wholemeal flour (which can be used as substitute).Jerusalem artichoke flour (w-f, g-f) is a useful alternative for people with 
hypoglycaemia and diabetes. It doesn’t thicken as other flours do, so is suited to pasta, pie crusts and biscuits.
Kamut flour is an ancient grain, twice the size of wheat and with 30 per cent more 
protein. It is used for baking (bread and biscuits) and pasta. 