The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 495Kuzu/kudzu (w-f, g-f) is a starch (found in Asian grocers) made from the roots of the 
kudzu plant. It is used for thickening soups and sauces, and for coating food to be deep-fried. 
Legume flour (w-f, g-f) can be made from any legume: yellow or green peas, red or green 
lentils, or white, broad or lima beans. These flours can be mixed with other flours to add 
extra protein to gluten-free baking.
Lotus flour (w-f, g-f) has a moderate, pleasant taste that hints of sour, salt, bitter 
and—of all things—mild cheese. A truly unique taste (which can be neutralised with the addition of a little salt to the recipe). It is used for baking (breads and biscuits) and pasta. 
Malanga flour (w-f, g-f), from the taro family, is considered to be the most easily 
digested complex carbohydrate because the grains in the starch are so fine. Also said to be the most hypoallergenic of all the flours, it is used in baking and as an excellent thickener. 
Matzo is a Jewish unleavened bread made from flour and water and cooked very quickly so 
it doesn’t ferment or rise (hence it is said it must be mixed and cooked within 18 minutes). The resulting thin crisp cracker is then eaten as is or cooled and processed further as matzo flour (finely ground, for cakes and biscuits), matzo meal (coarsely ground, as a replacement for bread crumbs and for matzo balls or dumplings) or matzo farfel (little cubes used as a noodle or bread cube substitute).
Millet flour (w-f, g-f) is made from millet seed. Millet and millet by-products are 
considered animal fodder to many Westerners but they are a staple in African, Indian and Asian countries. The flour can be mixed with plain flour in baking, in a proportion of up to 30 per cent millet flour. Try mixing in some whole millet seeds for texture.
Nut flour (w-f, g-f) is derived from the ground ‘cake’ formed when oil is pressed from 
nuts such as almonds, macadamias, walnuts, chestnuts and pecans to name a few. Store in the fridge or freezer and use soon after purchase. See also Nut meal.
Nut meal (w-f, g-f) is ground from whole nuts, with the oil retained, to leave a 
coarse, oily mix which can turn rancid within weeks. Store in the fridge or freezer and use soon after purchase. See also Nut flour.
Oat flour (w-f) is used for thickening stews and soups. It is great in biscuits, muffins, 
breads and desserts.
OO flour (double O flour) is an Italian wheat flour with a low protein content. If none is 
available, use plain flour. Most commonly used for making pasta.
Pastry flour is a US product used for making pastries (as its name suggests), and sits 
somewhere between cake flour and plain flour in the protein content. It’s great for pie dough if ever you find it.
Plain flour, or all-purpose flour in the US, is the most common of the white flours. Use 
within 9 months or, for a long duration, keep in the fridge or freezer and bring to room temperature before cooking. 
Poi flour or poi starch (w-f, g-f) is made from dehydrated, fermented paste from taro 
stems. It is used extensively in Polynesian cuisine. 
Potato flour (w-f, g-f) is used primarily as a thickener and in gluten-free baking. 
However, it makes a great addition to cake recipes because of its ability to absorb moisture. Experiment with replacing some plain flour with potato flour in baking for a moister or drier final product. Try replacing 10 per cent of the flour or you can replace 1 cup of wheat flour with 
5/8 cup potato flour.
Quinoa flour (w-f, g-f), made from the quinoa (pronounced keen-wah) fruit, is sometimes 
found in pre-made pasta.