The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 496Rice flour (w-f, g-f), both white and brown, has a very light and airy texture and a 
slightly sweet flavour. It is used in desserts, cakes and biscuits, and as a gluten-free 
thickener.
Rye flour (w-f) is usually mixed with wheat flour to make bread; the lighter the bread, 
the more wheat flour in the mixture. Pumpernickel bread is high in rye, strong in flavour and deep in colour. Rye flour is low in gluten.
Sago flour (w-f, g-f), made from the stem of the sago palm, is used to make pearl sago 
for desserts, and to thicken soups, sauces and stir-fries.
Self-raising flour (self-rising flour in the US) is plain flour that has baking powder 
added. I suggest making your own when needed, as the baking powder in packaged self-raising flour absorbs atmospheric moisture over time and loses its leavening ability, even if stored in an airtight container. It is sometimes called ‘phosphated flour’ or ‘pancake flour’. For homemade self-raising flour—mix together: 1 cup plain flour, 1½ teaspoons baking powder and  ½ teaspoon salt.
Semolina flour is used for making couscous and pasta. Semolina is made from the coarsely 
ground endosperm of durum wheat. It is sold as extra fine, fine, medium and coarse, each of which are suited to specific cooking methods. Extra fine is used in fresh pasta and specialty breads. Known as ‘creamed wheat’ or ‘cream of wheat’ in the US and sometimes ‘farina’, fine semolina is used as a porridge or in cakes and biscuits. Medium and coarse are often used in dessert or pudding recipes.
Sorghum flour (w-f, g-f) is nutritionally packed and adds a great flavour to gluten-free 
baking when combined with other flour products. 
Soy flour (w-f, g-f) should be stored in the fridge or freezer, and must be mixed with 
another flour; by itself it is unappetising. It is rich in protein, so is used as a bread improver, and can help goods keep moist and last longer. Try replacing 2 tablespoons in every 1 cup flour with soy flour. Remember that baked products will brown more quickly if they contain soy flour, so use a temperature about 10°C lower than the recipe suggests. Soy flour can also be toasted before use to intensify its nutty flavour—do so in a dry pan over medium heat until the colour just begins to change. 
Spelt flour (w-f) is very low in gluten, and makes an excellent substitute for wheat, 
with its delicious nutty flavour. If making bread with spelt flour, use only three-quarters of the water specified in the wheat flour recipe.
Stone ground flours are wholemeal, either plain or self-raising. The best are organic 
and milled in small batches by water-powered stone mills—this crushes and grinds the whole grains slowly so flavour and nutritional oils are distributed throughout. (In contrast, most flour milling is done by high-speed steel cylinders or hammer mills, which heats and oxidies the grain, killing healthy enzymes and allowing oils to become rancid.) They have a slightly fresher flavour, a courser texture and a slightly better nutrient value than regular wholemeal flour.
Strong flour is also known as ‘bread flour’, ‘high gluten flour’ or ‘hard wheat flour’. The 
high gluten content of this flour makes it the ideal product for making bread, giving the final loaf a better structure. 
Teff flour (w-f, g-f), made from the world’s smallest grain, is packed with nutrients 
(proteins and calcium) and has been enjoyed for centuries by highland Ethiopians. It is used to make the spongy, sour flat bread ‘injera’ which is used to scoop up meat and vegetable stews and to line the trays on which stews are served, soaking up juices as the meal progresses—when this edible tablecloth is eaten, the meal is officially over.
Wholemeal flour, or whole wheat flour in the US, is a more nutritious flour than plain, as 
it contains all the bran and wheatgerm.