The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 498Types of herbs
Basil This fragrant herb doesn’t like to be heated for long periods so add at the end of 
cooking. Use in salads, or blend with cream cheese and use as a spread in sandwiches. Basil (and other leafy herbs) should be torn rather than cut to avoid bruising and loss of flavour. There are some amazing varieties of basil that are worth trying: look for holy basil, excellent with fish and seafood dishes of Asian inspiration: cinnamon basil, for use in biscuits and desserts; lemon basil, for curries, seafood, poultry, veal and salads; purple basil for flair; and Thai basil or horapa basil, with its strong aniseed aroma, for stir-fries, soups, curries and salads. 
Bergamot is both a citrus fruit and a herb of the mint family that has edible flowers 
and leaves. The herb is similar to eau de cologne mint, which is also known as orange mint. Dried bergamot is popular in the US for tea infusions (similar to lemon balm). Its aroma is not dissimilar to the bergamot orange, but the herb and fruit are not related.
Chervil is a herb with a delicate anise flavour, usually used to finish a dish or in a 
salad. Chervil is a component in the classic herb blend ‘fines herbes’. 
Chinese parsley see Coriander.Cilantro see Coriander.Coriander leaves and seeds taste very different so cannot be substituted for one 
another. Coriander leaf, also known as ‘cilantro’ in the US or ‘Chinese parsley’, is my favourite herb, with its enticing aroma and bold, refreshing and incomparable flavour. It is definitely one that should only be used fresh—when cooked or dried, the flavour diminishes greatly. The root is used extensively in Thai cuisine where it is pounded into pastes and dressings. Unfortunately, coriander root can be hard to come across, especially in supermarkets. If a recipe calls for root when none is available, try doubling the quantity of finely chopped stem, but bear in mind that this will produce a slightly different texture (slimier) and will not match the depth of flavour the root can provide. Coriander sold with its root intact can be stored in a small amount of water (1–2 cm only) and covered with a plastic bag—it will last for 1–2 weeks and longer if you change the water.
Curry leaf, a delicate herb with a pungency that resembles curry, can be found fresh 
in Asian grocers (sold in bags of small stems of soft, dark green leaves) although dried leaves are more readily available. The fresh leaves are vibrant, while the pre-packed dried leaves have little flavour. Fresh leaves can be toasted or oven-dried just before use to release the essential oils, then added to soups, sauces and curries. They are also delicious finely shredded in a spring roll or samosa mixture. Packets of leaves can be frozen (as you would kaffir lime leaves) then added to the dish straight from the freezer. And if you really like the flavour, it might even be worth planting one of these decorative leafy trees in the garden. 
Epazote is a pungent herb used especially in bean dishes in Central American countries, 
Mexico and New Mexico. It is said to make the beans more digestible. It is also available as a powder.
Fines herbes is a mixture of chopped herbs, usually chervil, chives, parsley and 
tarragon.
Marjoram and oregano are very similar herbs of the same genus, Origanum. Oregano is 
said to be a hardier plant, liking arid soils, and is stronger in flavour and more pungent; it is suited to Mediterranean-style cooking, with strong flavours. Marjoram is more delicate, appreciates a lighter cooking style (added to sauces or soups towards the end of cooking, or eaten raw in a salad) and is ideal as a pot herb. (Oregano has a root system that does not take to potting.) However, the difference isn’t substantial, and their flavour can be just as 