The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 499strongly determined by where the herb is grown: in plenty of sunlight, essential oils within 
the plant are more prominent and heighten the flavour. Both herbs like to be dried. Use fresh in salads, especially where tomatoes and onions feature. 
Mint is an easy-to-grow herb. The three main types are spearmint, peppermint and 
pennyroyal. Spearmint (garden mint) is the one most often used in the kitchen.
Orange mint see Bergamot.Oregano see Marjoram.Parsley is one of the most popular culinary herbs. The two main varieties of this 
herb are prepared quite differently. Curly parsley can be chopped ferociously, this way and that, and still present well. (The old method of wrapping the finely chopped parsley in a towel, washing it and then squeezing out whatever flavour and chlorophyll was left in it, ready to sprinkle over every dish on the menu, must surely be vanquished.) Flat-leaf parsley (also called ‘Italian parsley’ or ‘continental parsley’) should be torn by hand or run through with the blade of a knife once or twice only—a chiffonade of leaf, if you will. Any ferocious chopping attacks on this type of parsley bruise and damage the leaf. Flat-leaf parsley has more flavour and less bitterness than curly parsley. A third common variety is celery-leaf parsley: this is often tagged Italian parsley but is in fact a different breed altogether, and has a much tougher texture and stronger flavour. Parsley root, also known as ‘turnip-rooted parsley’ and ‘Hamburg parsley’ (although the Germans call it ‘Dutch parsley’—seems nobody wants to own up to its origin), is a subspecies grown for its beige root, which tastes like a parsley–celeriac cross. It’s used in parts of Europe in soups, stews and simply as a vegetable. Choose firm roots with feathery, bright-green leaves. All fresh parsley can be stored refrigerated in a plastic bag for up to a week. 
Rosemary is a tough herb that can be added at the beginning of cooking. Remove the 
leaves and grind in a mortar and pestle with sea salt to make a rub for lamb, chicken, beef or veal cuts. Rosemary keeps well in the fridge, but not in water: keep it dry in an airtight bag. You can also tie a string around the end of the bunch and hang it in the kitchen to dry. Rosemary flowers are also edible, if slightly bitter.
Sage has a powerful flavour so tends to be used 1 or 2 leaves at a time. Drying the 
remainder is an excellent option, as dried sage holds well in cooking for long periods. One way to use a bunch of fresh sage quickly is to make a chicken or veal ragoût, a long slow-cooking process well matched to this herb. Sage butter and sage oil are delicious (see Herbs—Problem Solving) and, need I say it, sage stuffing. Store sage in the same way as rosemary, dry and airtight in the fridge.
Shiso is a very popular herb in Japan, where the green leaves are used in salads, to 
wrap food, and in tempura, sushi and sashimi as a garnish. Also known as ‘perilla’, ‘Chinese basil’ and ‘wild sesame’. Red shiso is named ‘beefsteak leaf’ because of its colour. It is used extensively as a colouring and mild flavouring agent in pickled plums.
Thyme comes in many varieties, all of which can be interchanged successfully, despite 
obvious differences in pungency. Common thyme and lemon thyme suit most foods. I find myself drying the bunch as soon as it gets home—using it and hanging it up at the same time.
Za’atar, the Arabic word for ‘wild thyme’, is both a herb and a spice mix used in 
Middle Eastern cooking. It is sprinkled on bread before baking, and on soups, seafood, barbecued mutton and grilled meats. It is a blend of sumac, sesame seeds and the herb za’atar, and can be bought ready-made in Middle Eastern and Lebanese produce shops. 