The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 501* Rump steak is called ‘sirloin steak’ in the US, while sirloin in Australia or the UK 
refers to what Americans call ‘porterhouse’.
* Skirt steak is called ‘flank steak’ in the US and can be called stewing steak.
* A joint of meat is a large cut of meat with the bone.
How to cook meat
Bring meat to room temperature before cooking. Meat to be roasted, pan-grilled or barbecued 
should be left out of the fridge for a period of time (30 minutes to 1 ½ hours) to reach 
room temperature. This reduces the core temperature and the overall cooking time of the meat. 
Rest grilled or roasted meat after cooking. When raw meat hits the pan or oven, it 
begins to contract, and as it cooks and contracts, the juices (blood) are forced to the centre of the meat. If you cut into it immediately it is cooked, the juices will still be concentrated in the centre. Allowing the meat to rest and cool a little, relaxes the meat fibres and lets the juices redistribute evenly throughout the meat. The more juices, the more flavour and tenderness. The larger the cut of meat, the longer the resting time required. Rest the average steak in a warm place for 5–10 minutes, and a large roast for up to 1 hour covered in foil. (Braised or stewed meats do not need to be rested.)
Frying or grilling 
Remember ‘hot’ when exposing meat to a pan or grill top; a continual sizzling sound should always be present. Brown the meat on both sides in a hot pan then adjust the heat to finish, but be careful not to drop the heat so much that the meat starts to stew. It is sometimes recommended that thick-cut steaks be finished in a hot oven. This practice helps those who are in the habit of turning their meat 50 times to stop it from burning before it is cooked, but is really only suitable for those who enjoy cremating their food.
Sealing meat to lock in the juices
New research shows that it is in fact a fallacy that moisture is retained by sealing meat (see also Braising). However, browning the meat before finishing the cooking enhances its flavour and texture: it adds a delicious crust that contrasts satisfyingly with a rare centre. 
to salt or not to salt?
When anything with a water content, whether meat, fruit or vegetables, comes into contact with salt, the salt will begin to draw out the water. The amount of salt and the time the food is exposed to it will determine the extraction rate of moisture. So a steak that is salted and left to sit while the pan heats up will lose valuable juices, while a steak that is salted after it is cooked misses the point, as the meat has already been sealed. The best option is to season the meat with salt just before it hits the pan, ready to be sealed. This way the salt cooks onto the meat, enhancing the flavour of the cut, without drawing out valuable juices. Watch as crystal salt flakes caramelise on the surface of the meat when exposed to a hot pan. 
Roasting 
Having the meat boned then netted or trussed by the butcher is recommended to hold plain or filled roast cuts in an even shape while roasting, portioning and carving. Season the joint with salt and pepper, spice rubs or pastes or chopped herbs. 