The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 502Seal or brown very lean cuts of meat (beef, veal or lamb) before roasting. Pre-sealing 
a roast in a hot pan improves colour and flavour, particularly when using small, very lean 
beef or lamb cuts that need only a short amount of cooking. 
Sealing a joint before moving it to the oven forms a crust and cooks on the seasonings, 
and allows the oven to be kept on a lower temperature (160°C).
A digital meat thermometer (probe) is a wise investment if you roast a lot of red meat. 
Insert the thermometer into the thickest part of the meat, away from any fat or bones (which have a higher temperature reading while cooking), as it goes into the oven and leave it there the entire time the meat is roasted. Depending on how you like your meat cooked, the core temperature will let you know when to remove the roast. This is as close to foolproof as you can get. Core temperatures for doneness are: 45°C = rare; 55°C = medium-rare; 65°C = medium; 75–80°C = well to very well done. Also take into account that while the meat is resting, it is in fact still cooking and the core temperature can rise by another 2°C for a small roast to 8°C for a large joint of meat. 
If a thermometer is not available then the old ‘time by weight’ method will do just 
fine. Allow 30 minutes for every 500 g. For example, 1
½ hours for a leg of lamb that weighs 
1.5 kg. 
Crumbing or breading 
Never add salt to meat before crumbing. It will draw out the moisture and make the crumbs turn soggy. Instead, season the egg mixture and the flour with salt and pepper.
To add flavour to the meat, you can stuff it or marinate it (remember to pat dry with 
paper towel before crumbing). To add flavour to bread crumbs, rub in freshly crushed garlic (2 teaspoons crushed garlic for every 500 g bread crumbs will get you started) or add freshly ground black pepper and torn or roughly shredded flat-leaf parsley. Your homemade parmigiana will never taste the same again.
Braising
For most braised dishes, the cut of meat is first dredged in flour then pan-fried. The flour acts as a thickening agent as well as adding colour to the sauce. The purpose of this is not to lock in the juices, as braising meat may take several hours in which time any juices that were ‘locked in’ have well and truly escaped into the braising liquor. Never assume that the longer meat braises the better off it will be. Meat can overbraise to the point where it falls off the bone or turns into mush. Depending on the type, size and cut of meat, stick to the requested time limit, check for done-ness, then give or take time after checking. 
Pot roasting 
Resist adding too much liquid or the pot roast will become a stew. 
Problem solving
* Steak curls as it cooks? Some cuts have a tough membrane attached to the meat that when 
exposed to heat causes the cut of meat to curl or twist, making the opposite side near 
impossible to brown evenly. Simply place small incisions at intervals in the membrane, making sure the cut goes through to the meat. 
* Is the steak done? When pressed with a finger, a cooked steak will feel different (softer, 
firmer, springier) depending on how well it is done. The professional cook learns by experience to tell a rare from a medium-rare steak, but for domestic cooks who don’t cook hundreds of steaks a year, telling the difference can be difficult. A good way to learn is to 