The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 504Lamb and mutton
Mutton was often considered tough and stringy, but due to modern breeding and farming 
methods, the meat produced now is both tender and flavourful. Mutton has a more robust flavour than lamb, an off-white fat that springs back to the touch (lamb has a firm, creamy-white fat), and it turns cherry-red when cut, then darkens with age (lamb stays a pinkish-red colour). Darker mutton may still be good, strong in aroma, and should be cooked and eaten immediately. As mutton is a tougher piece of meat, marinating or tenderising with a meat mallet will soften the connective tissues. Mutton is not easily available, but can be purchased at butchers.
Pork
Pork is often associated in Western countries with a roast and the crackling that 
accompanies it. Yet there is so much more on offer, from the lean fillets to the very tasty neck. Pork is the most important meat in Chinese cuisine, and in fact is the most consumed meat in the world (it makes up 44 per cent of the world’s consumption compared to 28 per cent beef and 24 per cent chicken).
Roast pork is ready when the juices run clear after the meat is speared with a skewer. 
Overcooked pork meat is, in general, dry and tough and needs a bucket of moist apple sauce to compensate. People tend to overcook it for fear of the disease trichinosis which is caused by a parasite. However, trichinosis is, in fact, associated with raw pork products and wild game, and has never been reported in Australia. It’s important to follow correct food handling and storage methods, but there’s no need to cook pork until it becomes a leather substitute.
Crackling or pork rind—there never seems to be enough of the stuff. I admit to once 
standing over a spit roast with a large joint of pork rotating in front of me, and with one other’s help, successfully eating the entire provision of crisp, bubbled rind in a very short period of time. Funny thing, karma
—I broke a tooth, such were my gluttonous ways. 
I suggest you ask for an extra slab of pork rind, fat intact, when you buy your roasting joint. (The fat that runs along the back of the pig, just under the skin, is also called ‘fatback’ or ‘speck’ and, when rendered, becomes lard.) You can remove the skin from the joint to maximise the yield of crackling, remembering that roasting the crackling (rind/skin) off the meat can mean major shrinkage because the skin will no longer protect the tender white meat from drying out too much.
rabbit
There is no greater deceit than lying about what you’re feeding people, and discovering as a 
kid that the chicken I thought I was eating was in fact rabbit was just not cool. Although I licked the plate clean, I admit I would not have touched it had I first been told what it was. Some 20 years later, I marvel at the comeback and chic appeal of rabbit and hare on restaurant menus. European cooks never lost touch with rabbit and hare, and have developed countless ways of preparing them. Marinades are often used, with hare in particular, to improve the flavour, and braising and casserole cooking have long been favoured to retain juiciness. However, a saddle of young hare or rabbit, quickly roasted until well browned but still quite pink in the centre, can be one of the juiciest and most tender cuts of meat.
Rabbit and hare are readily available at butcher’s and specialty game and poultry 
shops. Rabbit is low in cholesterol, and it’s still an economical meat. Rabbits usually weigh 800 g–1 kg. Farmed white rabbits, known as New Zealand white rabbits, are less widely 