The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 506Rancid oils have a stale, soapy smell and lose the strong characteristics of that particular 
oil as well as forming free radicals (which change cell membranes, suppress the immune system and promote the development of cancer and arteriosclerosis). If an oil is rancid, take it back to the shop if it is newly purchased or throw it out, there is nothing that can be done. Once you are used to detecting the rancid odour, you may well be surprised at how often you encounter the smell in other fat- or oil-based products.
* Oils made from nuts are the most unstable of all oils (although macadamia is the best of 
them), so buy in smaller quantities and try to use well before the use-by date.
* If you deep-fry often, speak to your local council as they may have a collection depot 
nearby where you can drop off used cooking oil to be sold to companies that make truck fuel or soap—true.
* Recycled oil can be used for day-to-day cooking as well as further deep-frying. 
Polyunsaturated oils can only be used once, while olive oil and unrefined peanut oil last longer and can be strained and reused two or three times. 
* Oil that has had seafood cooked in it should not be reused to cook sweet foods, but can 
be reused to cook more seafood. However, oil that has been used to cook say, donuts, can be reused to cook seafood.
* Never get in the habit of pouring oil down the sink. Pour cold oil into an empty plastic 
or metal container with a lid (old milk or cream containers, jam jars and the like) before putting in the rubbish. Some countries have depots where used cooking oil can be dropped off. If you feel you go through enough oil to justify a trip to the depot, then I suggest giving your local council a call to find out if this service is available to you.
The besT  oil for T he job
For salads and other cold dishes where the oil will be tasted clearly, try the stronger oils 
like walnut, hazelnut, macadamia and extra virgin olive oil. Flavoured oils like citrus, chilli, coffee, herb, garlic and others are intended to give flavour and lift to an otherwise drab dish or salad. Sesame oil is misunderstood and often abused: use it in small quantities as a seasoning, as you would salt and pepper, in stir-fries or Asian-style dressings. 
For cooking, use unrefined oils. A quality roasted peanut oil is good for cooking as well 
as salads but unrefined peanut oil is better for frying. There is a school of thought that believes any oil becomes toxic once heated and so oil should never be used for cooking— here 
is not the place to analyse that theory. Certainly, the hotter the oil gets, the faster it will oxidise and break down. Shortly before smoking point, oils begin to decompose, thus forming free radicals and acrolein, a toxic smoke. Oil at smoking point is generally considered not fit for human consumption, as it cannot be properly digested by the liver.
The following fats and oils are low in essential fatty acids (see Fat), therefore 
produce the lowest amount of toxic molecules when heated. So although most of them are saturated fats, they are considered the better option for cooking: butter, lard, tropical fats (coconut and palm oil), high oleic sunflower (not ordinary sunflower) oil, high oleic safflower (not ordinary safflower) oil, peanut oil, sesame oil, canola oil and olive oil—in that order of preference.
Choose unrefined oils where possible. Refined oils are unbalanced oils. They have 
had vital elements removed to extend shelf life and profitability. Often removed are lethicin (which makes digesting oil easier), anti-oxidants (like vitamin E and carotene), phytosterols (which provide protection for the immune and cardiovascular system), and chlorophyll (an essential source of magnesium, which is required for muscle, heart and nerve functions). In addition, these elements are removed with corrosive bases, window-washing 