The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 507acids and bleaching clays. The oils are then heated to frying temperatures before being 
packed into bottles or tins. Sunflower, safflower, canola, soy bean, corn and vegetable oils are just some of those on the supermarket shelf that are worth thinking twice about. 
Palm oil can be white or red. Red palm oil is extracted from the fibrous flesh around the 
nut of the fruit of the oil palm, while the white oil comes from the palm kernel itself. It is used liberally in soups and sauces, yet without making them greasy or oily. Both palm oils are high in saturated fats, although the red (50 per cent) has far less than the white (80 per cent). Palm oil is also known as ‘manja’ or ‘zomi’.
OniOns
Problem solving
How to prevent tears while working with onion? There’s no perfect answer, short of 
engineering a genetically modified onion void of all sulphur compounds, but the following can help: keep onions in the fridge, as the cold subdues the substance known as allicin, produced when an onion is cut; peel onions under water, although this washes away the natural ‘bite’ onions produce; and leave the root end intact when peeling, as this contains the largest amount of sulphuric compounds. Onions grown in soil that contains a higher level of sulphur compounds are stronger and more tear-inducing. 
TyPes of onion
Brown onions (yellow onions in the US) are the most common cooking onion. They’re usually 
too strong to be eaten raw.
Eschalots are indeed favoured by chefs over onions because of the sweeter flavour. 
Peeled and kept whole, eschalots are ideal for roasting, braising or for pickling.
Green onions are a general term used to describe both the salad onion and the spring 
onion (see below) and any harvested bulb with green shoots intact. 
Pickling onions are small and good for cooking as well as pickling. Pearl onions, 
boiling onions (small brown onions) and cippolini onions are all pickling onions.
Red onions are sweeter than brown and are often eaten raw but cook just as well. There 
are several varieties of red onion, some a little more elongated with a bit of a green sprout at the top (Burmuda onions). Red onions are sometimes mistakenly called ‘Spanish onions’.
Salad onions are a slightly more developed spring onion, harvested from 4 months 
on, giving them a more rounded bulb. Salad onions have the advantage that they are sold separately, not in a bunch, so if ever a recipe calls for a small amount of spring onions, you can buy a salad onion or two instead, and use the inner green leaves only. The bulbous part can be used in salads or in cooking. They are known as ‘spring onions’ in the US and ‘green onions’ in the UK.
Shallots grow as a small group or cluster of onion bulbs. Popular in French and Asian 
cuisines, shallots have a brown/golden skin or a pink/purple skin. Shallots are favoured in sauces for their mild flavour. ‘Shallot’ is a name used for the spring onion in New South Wales where the word ‘eschalot’ refers to the true shallot. 
Spanish onions are similar to brown onions only larger and sweeter and they are 
seasonal (spring to summer).
Spring onions are green onions, harvested from 8 weeks after seed to prevent a bulbous 
end forming (so they are an even width from top to bottom). Buying a whole bunch can mean 