The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 510Cook for 10–12 minutes. Alternatively, you could freeze the prepared pastry case for 15–20 
minutes before baking. If any bubbles appear while the pastry is baking, pop them with the tip of a knife.
Docking pastry means placing small holes around the dough with a pastry docker or a 
fork. This helps prevent the dough from bulging while it is baking. The downside is that it leaves small holes in the cooked pastry.
A pie funnel is a hollow funnel, usually about 7.5 cm tall, that is placed in the 
centre of the pie before cooking. It aids heat distribution, supports the top pastry crust and allows liquids to reduce, thus enhancing flavour and helping avoid soggy pastry. It is also known as a ‘pie bird’, as many are made to resemble blackbirds (I shall stop short of reciting the rhyme), and other shapes like elephants, chefs and songbirds are common. I’ve also seen ‘tweety bird’ and ‘naked women’ pie funnels—don’t ask.
Problem solving
* Parts of the pastry colouring too quickly? Remove from the oven and cover the ‘burning’ 
pastry with a strip of foil. 
* To avoid soggy pastry in a tart case, remove it from the oven after blind baking, take 
out the paper lining filled with beans, rice or weights, then, while still hot, brush with a 
beaten egg and return to the oven for the prescribed time, usually another 10 minutes. The egg will cook, forming a glaze or impervious layer, ready for the filling. Alternatively, you could brush a thin layer of melted chocolate inside the case when it is cold: allow the chocolate to set before filling.
* Soggy lid? Use a pie funnel. If you don’t have one, try putting a piece of dried pasta 
such as rigatoni or large macaroni into the centre of the pie. This will act as a chimney, allowing excess heat and steam to escape.
* Shrunk pastry? Pastry shrinks during baking because of high water content in the dough. 
As the water evaporates, the dough loses volume. So try using less water next time. If the dough was made without water yet still shrinks, chances are the pastry was stretched and forced into the dish, or that you didn’t rest it in the fridge before baking.
Potatoes
New and old, waxy or floury, so many styles and varieties—cooking with potatoes can be a laboratory full of experiments. Selecting the best potatoes for boiling, frying, mashing, roasting, salads, gratins, baking, steaming, sautés or even for gnocchi can be a trial-and-error journey. In general, waxy are good for salads, steaming and boiling and do not take well to mashing, roasting and baking. Floury potatoes are better suited to dry baking, roasting, mash and chips. They can be used like waxy if they are not overcooked, as they will dry and crumble. 
For fluffy mashed potato, heat the milk or cream before adding it with a touch of butter 
to the mashed potatoes. Potatoes can also be mashed with a good extra virgin olive oil or a non-dairy dip instead of milk, cream or butter. 