The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 511Best use for different varieties of potato 
Baking (dry)—King Edward (the best), Bintje, Pontiac, Crystal, Sebago, Delaware, Kennebec, 
Wilwash.
Frying—Idaho (Russet Burbank, the best), Kennebec, Maris Piper, Crystal, Sputna, 
Delaware.
Gnocchi—Desiree (the best), Toolangi Delight, Purple Congo (although the colour may be 
too much for some).
Mashing—Sebago (the best), Pontiac, Toolangi Delight, Desiree, Spunta, Bison, 
Kennebec.
Roasting—Desiree (the best), Spunta, Crystal, Delaware, Idaho (Russet Burbank), 
Kennebec, Pontiac, Bison.
Salad—choose the waxy variety, whose starches settle and hold firm after cooking (take 
care not to overcook them and allow to cool thoroughly before use)— Kipfler (the best), Ratte, 
Pink Fir, Pink Eye (Southern Gold), Bintje, Wilwash, Wilja, Coliban, Pontiac, Nicola, Patrone.
sweet potato
Sweet potato comes in differing shapes, colours and sizes. Due to the texture of all sweet potatoes, they are best roasted or baked whole in their skins or wrapped in foil with butter/oil and seasonings, or sliced and grilled. They shouldn’t be boiled as, like pumpkin, they lose too much texture, volume and, more importantly, flavour. Sweet potato can be white- or orange-fleshed with orange, white, brown or purple skins. The orange-fleshed, brown-skinned sweet potato is known as a ‘yam’ in the US, where sweet potato refers only to the white-fleshed variety. (The true yam is called a ‘tropical yam’ in the US.) Boniato is a type of sweet potato favoured for its fluffier texture once cooked, but lacking the sweetness and flavour of regular sweet potato. Kumara is a cultivar of sweet potato popular in New Zealand and the Pacific region.
Poultry
Poultry refers to domesticated or game birds, but most often chicken. If there is one thing that passionate cooks despise, it is the declining quality of most chicken meat available to the general public. Meat from poorly reared birds lacks flavour and texture and can be more susceptible to harmful bacteria. Of course, mass-produced chicken is cheaper so it’s up to the individual to balance the pros and cons of cost, differences in flavour and texture, and the risk of bacteria, such as E. coli, Salmonella and Campylobacter. 
All poultry is highly susceptible to the growth of harmful (and not so harmful) 
bacteria, from the moment it is killed to the time you ingest it. There is not much you can do about the first phases of meat production, but once at home you can reduce contamination through proper storage and cooking. All poultry should be kept refrigerated at 0–4°C and used within 2 days. If frozen, whole or in pieces, the meat must be kept cold while defrosting. When freezing pieces of chicken, separate each piece with plastic wrap or baking paper. This way if only one piece is needed, it can be removed easily without having to defrost a whole lump of chicken. Also, freeze as flat as possible (not pushed into a ball at the back of the freezer), before piling into one bag. This will ensure that the meat freezes quickly, halting bacteria growth, but also that it defrosts evenly. Never defrost poultry by leaving it out at room temperature. Leave it in the fridge for a day or two until it is completely thawed before cooking. 