54
 Dumplings for BeginnersCHAR SIU BAO
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes, plus 30 minutes to proof  
Cook tiMe 20 minutes
Char siu is a Cantonese-style barbecue pork that you can buy ready-made from the hot 
foods counters at Asian markets. These fluffy pork buns are a favorite in my family. 
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce
1 tablespoon oyster sauce
1 tablespoon cornstarch dis-
solved in 1 tablespoon water
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
12 ounces char siu, cut into 
1/ 4-inch dice
1 teaspoon minced scallion, 
white and green parts 
1 garlic clove, minced
1 batch Bao Dough 
(page 22)
Mix it uP: Don’t leave this 
bao just for the barbecue 
pork! Try any of the vegetable 
fillings, like the one used in 
the Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza (page 71), for a change.1. Make the filling: In a small saucepan over medium 
heat, stir together 1/ 4 cup of water, the sugar, hoisin, 
oyster sauce, cornstarch mixture, soy sauce, and rice 
wine. Simmer for 4 to 5 minutes, or until thickened.
2. Remove from the heat and stir in the char siu, 
scallion, and garlic until well mixed. Let cool to room 
temperature, then refrigerate until the dough is 
rolled, or for up to 2 days.
3. Prepare the dough and shape the baos: Cut the 
dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Keep the 
dough pieces covered under plastic wrap. Cut parch-
ment paper into 24 (2-inch) squares.
4. Use your fingertips to flatten and stretch one piece 
of dough into a 4-inch circle. Place the circle flat 
on one palm. Spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of fill-
ing into the center. Gather the edges of the dough 
together and pinch tightly at the top. Place the bao, 
pinched-side up, on a parchment square, then place 
it into a stainless-steel steaming basket. Repeat with 
the remaining dough and filling, arranging the baos 
2 inches apart in the steamer baskets.
5. Cook and serve: Stack the baskets, covering the 
top tier loosely with plastic wrap. Let rise at room 
temperature for 30 minutes.
6. In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, bring 3 cups 
water to a boil. Stack the baskets over the pot and 
steam the baos over high heat for 12 to 15 minutes, 
replenishing the pot with water, as needed. 