The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 512How to cook poultry
Poultry meat can be broken into three categories: red meat, white meat and giblets, each of 
which is treated differently when cooked. 
The ‘red’ meat is the working muscles of the bird, the legs and wings, which produce 
a tough, fibrous, dark meat better suited to long, slow cooking (although nothing like the cooking times required for tough red meat from beef or lamb). Having said that, leg meat with sinew and gristle removed is tender enough to stir-fry, sauté, barbecue or bake to shred for sandwiches. The red meat is considered to have more flavour than the white meat—the source of many arguments over the drumstick of a roasted bird. 
The ‘white’ meat is the breast of the bird. In chicken and turkey, it is white and 
delicate; it must be cooked through, but overcooking will render it dry and tough. The ‘white’ meat of game birds isn’t really considered white meat at all and can be treated like a beef steak, in that it is best served rare to medium rare. (Asking for the breast of game to be cooked well done in a restaurant is frowned upon as much as a well-done steak.) 
Giblets are the heart, liver and gizzards of poultry. Often sautéed, grilled, fried or 
used to make gravy, they can also be steamed or simmered and then ground into a stuffing.
When chicken and turkey—whether whole or as pieces—are cooked perfectly, the juices 
will run clear rather than cloudy-white or pink. 
As chicken and turkey are soft proteins, they prefer gentle rather than fierce cooking 
methods. This allows the proteins to set rather than having them contract too fast and force out valuable juices.
Skin off versus skin on? The skin tends to be the fattiest part of poultry so does 
little for the waistline, which is why it is often recommended to buy skinless chicken breasts. On the other hand, the skin is poultry’s built-in basting mechanism. So, although it takes a little more self-control, I recommend that you buy chicken breast and cook it with the skin on, letting the fat from the skin render, basting the lean white meat beneath, then remove the skin before eating the succulent meat. (This method doesn’t work with poaching and steaming.)
cooking a wHole bird 
Preparation—remove any bits and fat left inside the carcass. Rinse in cold running water 
and then pat dry, inside and out, with a lint-free towel (paper towel, especially cheap ones, can leave paper fibres on the meat). If stuffing the cavity, remember not to pack it in too tight because the mixture expands as it cooks. Cooking times—when roasting whole birds, the breast will cook faster than the legs. (If you want to avoid this, try packing a stuffing between the breast skin and breast or cutting 2–3 lines into the leg muscles to allow heat to penetrate.) And a stuffed bird will take a little longer than one without stuffing because it takes longer for the heat to penetrate to the centre. Allow 2 minutes resting time per kilogram before you carve the beast, and remove the wishbone for easy carving. (Hang the wishbone out to dry for the kids to fight over—the smart child will have figured out that whoever keeps their little finger above their opponent’s will always win.)
Types of poultry
Battery hen is a term for a practice that will one day end. This barbaric method of supplying eggs to meet high demand is appalling, and you need only witness the conditions under which these eggs have been produced to change the way you eat. Once these chickens are deemed useless as productive layers (their lifespan is no more than 18 months), they are 