The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 513transported, bruised and broken-boned, to a slaughterhouse, where their calcium-deficient, 
toxin-infused, pathetic excuse for a carcass is transformed into food such as pies, loaves, soups, pet food and other chicken by-products that conceal the true state of the battery chickens’ flesh and miserable lives. That’s why you should buy only certified free-range or organic eggs—and here endeth the lesson.
Boiler hen (or stewing hen in the US) is a tough-fleshed hen reserved for stocks, pies, 
broth and—if desperate—picked over for chicken salad or sandwiches. Not for roasting, the hen needs to be cooked or boiled for several hours. The flavour of boiler chicken is strong and the flesh firm, making for an ideal stock.
Broiler hen is a US term for a meat-producing hen (as opposed to an egg-producing one); 
also marketed as ‘fryers’. A broiler’s genetic make-up means it is inappropriate as an egg layer. The broiler is slaughtered at about 6–7 weeks. 
Capon is a surgically neutered rooster, slaughtered at 10–12 weeks. It has a heavier 
carcass than ordinary chicken, yielding lighter, generous amounts of white flesh and is sold particularly for roasting. 
Cockscomb is the often red, fleshy excrescence found on the head of roosters and other 
poultry. It is traditionally served in France as a garnish or a small entrée. Not likely to make a comeback because of their scarcity apart from anything else—you’ll have more fun with a bag of parson’s nose. 
Corn-fed chicken is a label that is occasionally abused. In many cases, it has been 
shown that no more than 50 per cent of the hens’ feed has included corn or maize during the fattening stage. The best corn-fed chickens are also free-range, fed on a diet of corn and corn gluten meal (70 per cent) and soy bean meal (15–20 per cent) with the remainder made up of salts, vitamins and minerals. The resulting chicken is plump, meaty and has a yellow tinge, not just on the skin, but also to the flesh. This yellow pigmentation is derived from the natural yellow colouring in corn called ‘xanthophyll’. 
Duck in most Western countries is still the meat we go out for. Due to a high fat-
to-meat ratio and the expense compared to chicken, duck has struggled to adorn domestic kitchen tables. Duck is processed from 6–15 weeks of age, depending on the breed. Most duck available to the public is the Pekin or Peking duck (this is the name of the breed as well as the famous dish). For a stronger game flavour, try to source the big-scented Muscovy duck. Duck’s web (the membrane between its webbed toes) is up there with chicken feet and cockscomb when it comes to challenging ingredients.
Free-range chicken is a marketing term that should be broken into two groups for the 
consumer. For a chicken to be free-range, at least half its life must be spent outside. ‘Traditional free-range’ requires greater access to outside living, fewer chickens in the space and a higher minimum age at slaughter. Then there is ‘free-range total freedom’: similar to traditional but with no restrictions to daytime open-air living. Be rightfully suspicious of labels such as ‘farm fresh’ and ‘country fresh’; these do not guarantee free-range conditions. 
Game bird is generally what you enjoy on your travels through Europe, and is not quite 
the same elsewhere. These are wild birds such as grouse, woodcock, partridge, guinea fowl, snipe and pheasant. Some species, especially quail and pheasant, are now being farmed. When buying quality game birds, look for these points: the beak should break easily, the breast plumage ought to be soft and the breast plump, and the quill feathers (those close to the body) should be pointed, not rounded. Most game birds are hung before cooking to mature and tenderise the meat and develop flavour. Hanging is a matter of taste, however, as some people find that hung or ‘high’ meat has an overly strong gamey smell and flavour. Game meat sold in 