The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 514supermarkets usually has a milder flavour. Quail are too small and gain nothing from hanging, 
so consume immediately. When cooking game birds, follow a good recipe. Keep ‘medium-rare’ in mind and you’re off to a good start: The lean meat from game birds (including flightless birds such as emus and ostrich) can be dry and nasty if overcooked. 
Goose usually only appears, if ever, at the Christmas table alongside many other meats. 
Geese are processed at about 20 weeks old and usually only two or three times a year (young geese or gosling are favoured over mature birds as their meat is more tender). The flavour is similar to duck, although wild geese are gamier. Roasting goose is similar to cooking duck, as geese also store plenty of fat under the skin. Season the goose inside and out with sea salt and pepper. Roast at 210°C for 20 minutes, reduce the heat to 180°C and cook for a further 30 minutes per kilogram or 45 minutes per kilo if stuffed. Drain the fat every 20 minutes. When cooled, you can store the fat in the fridge for future use in roasts or casseroles.
Grain-fed chicken is fed on a blend of wheat, corn and sometimes barley, which makes up 
about 70 per cent of its feed. The other 30 per cent is made up of mainly protein, such as soy bean or occasionally canola or fish meal, as well as vitamins and minerals.
Male chicken refers to one of the thousands of millions of those cute, fluffy new 
chickens that were unfortunate enough to be hatched at a commercial egg farm. No sentiment is wasted on these ‘useless’ animals which are either ground up while still alive for fertiliser, gassed or suffocated in bags or containers. This information may have little to do with your cooking, but it will give you something to mull over next time you order sunny-side-up.
Poussin is a chicken that is slaughtered at 21–28 days old. These young chickens are 
usually reserved for grilling or roasting and can be served as an individual portion. Spatchcock is another word for poussin that can also describe a method in which it is cooked—butterflied and grilled—which is both quick and easy.
Pullet is a female chicken under 12 months old. (After that she becomes known as a 
hen.)
Turkey, like Santa Claus, is recognised only once a year in many countries, with the 
exception of the US. Turkey is processed from 4 weeks–10 months old. If cooked properly, turkey yields succulent, tasty white meat, just as good hot as it is cold. The problem lies in the fact that unlike, say, roast lamb, that gets a workout several times a year, turkey is rarely cooked, and the inexperienced cook is scared into overcooking it, thereby rendering the meat drier than a salted pretzel. Turkey, like chicken, prefers gentle cooking and its juices will run clear when cooked. Here’s a very rough guide to times for the first-time turkey roaster: try 30–35 minutes per kg (no stuffing) or 40–45 minutes per kg (with stuffing) at 170°C. See How to Cook Poultry and Cooking a Whole Bird.
Young roaster is a US term for a broiler-style chicken, generally older and heavier 
than a broiler, slaughtered at around 10 weeks. 