The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 515Quinces
Tips:
* Quinces, although related to the apple family, aren’t eaten like apples. Quinces benefit 
from long slow cooking methods which develop the deep red colour that they are known for.
* Quinces sold in fruit shops will not ripen once home. If the fruit is blemished or soft 
in spots, it indicates it is beginning to rot and should be discarded.
* Look for bright yellow fruit with small patches of soft brown ‘down’ over the skin—this 
down washes off easily. Slightly under-ripe fruit is great to use in quince paste.
* Perfectly ripe fruit has a delicious aroma akin to those little jars of boiled mixed 
lollies. This is when they are at their peak for roasting, baking or stewing.
* Quinces are often cooked and mixed with apples or pears in pie recipes or as an 
accompaniment for roast pork.
Rice
Rice is a member of the grass family and lives a short life of 3–7 months. The three main 
categories of rice are: indica, javanica and japonica. Different varieties have different levels of the two starches found in rice and this affects how they cook: the starch ‘amylose’ makes the rice grains separate and fluffy, while ‘amylopectin’ gives the grains a sticky consistency. 
Indica or long-grain rice is a slender rice that is 4–5 times longer than its width. 
It is grown in countries with a warm climate such as India, Thailand, Vietnam, Pakistan, Australia, Brazil and southern USA. Once cooked, long-grain rice stays separated and fluffy, making it the perfect accompaniment to curries or sauce-based dishes. 
Javanica is a plump but not round grain of rice 2–3 times longer than its width. It 
has glutinous properties like short-grain rice and is only grown in Indonesia. When cooked, medium-grain rice is more moist and tender than long-grain. Japonica or short-grain rice has a rounded grain that tends to remain sticky once cooked. It is grown in cold-climate countries such as Japan, Korea and northern China.
All rice should be stored in a dry place, below 18°C. Red, brown and black rice (see 
below) should be consumed within 6 months of purchase. White rice has a longer storage time.
How To cook rice
The various types of rice behave differently when cooked, mainly because of variations in 
their ratio of the starches amylose and amylopectin. There are many methods to cooking rice and, depending on the type, the times can vary by up to 10 minutes. Very generally speaking, rice takes about 20 minutes to cook. 
Some recommend that white rice be washed in a small amount of cold water, then rinsed 
and swirled (but not stirred with a hand or implement as this can break the grains) until the water runs clear. This removes excess rice starch, ensuring the rice is not overly starchy or sticky. Others say that washing is unnecessary.
Opinion is similarly divided about soaking rice: some people swear by it, others 
abhor the practice. In general, glutinous (short- and medium-grain) rice does benefit from soaking; long-grain rice does not (it will reduce the cooking time slightly but gives it the potential to become soggy).
There is no exact measure of what proportion of water to rice is best, as rice will 