The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 516absorb water at different rates depending on its type and age (young rice still has a 
moisture content so needs less water). One method is the ‘index finger’ gauge, where you add water to cover the rice to the height of the first knuckle of your index finger with the fingertip touching the rice. My advice is to cook rice often until you find a method and a measure that is foolproof for you.
Tips for cooking rice:
* Adding a small amount of ghee to the rice before cooking can help keep the grains 
separate: a method used by some Indian cooks that also adds a bit of flavour. 
* Whether you salt rice or not is optional. Some say it is best left unseasoned so the 
focus is cast onto the food it is served with.
* All rice should be left to stand for 10–20 minutes after cooking. It should be stirred 
occasionally while standing. 
* Rice cookers are a brilliant way to cook rice, but need to be cared for. Never use metal 
implements when removing the rice, and always make sure the base of the bowl is dry before 
placing it on the element.
* Cooking rice in the microwave takes about 12 minutes (give or take 1–2 minutes depending 
on the type of rice.)
* For the stovetop method, rinse the rice in water to remove excess starch. For every cup 
of rice, add 1 ½ cups water. Bring the rice to the boil, uncovered, on a high–medium heat. 
Once it is boiling, turn the heat down to low. Place the lid on the pot, keeping the lid tilted to let steam escape. Simmer gently for another 15 minutes. Let stand for 10 minutes. Fluff up rice before serving. 
* Steamed rice is a method employed by few outside the Thai community. It takes time and 
patience, which Western cooks are often short of. The rice should be soaked for 3 hours (long-grain jasmine) or overnight (short-grain) then rinsed and drained. For long-grain rice, add boiling water to only just cover the rice. Place in a steamer basket, cover, and cook over medium heat for 30–60 minutes depending on quantity. For short-grain sticky rice, place directly in a mound in the steamer (only a few grains will drop through so there’s no need to use a plate) then cover and cook for approximately 25 minutes. Check the centre of this mound to ensure the rice is cooked through, then cover with a cloth to prevent it drying out. 
problem solving
* Burnt rice? Burning can leave a scorched smell through the cooked rice. Take a crust of 
bread and place it on top of the rice. Depending on the extent of the burning, this can 
absorb most, if not all, of the aroma.
Types of rice
Arborio rice is a commonly available medium-grain rice used for making risotto. This grain 
has a higher than normal amount of soluble starch and it needs to be cooked slowly and stirred continuously to expose the starch that gives risotto its tell-tale creaminess. Its cooking time is about 18–20 minutes. See also Risotto rice, below.
Baldo rice is Italian-grown and used in risotto, desserts, stuffings, soups and salads. 
Considered to be the ‘daughter’ of arborio rice, baldo rice is also popular in other Mediterranean dishes. If unavailable, replace with arborio.
Basmati rice, a quality rice with an excellent flavour, is grown in India. It has long 