The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 517grains which stay separate, fluffy and somewhat dry once cooked. When cooked, it swells and 
lengthens to 2–3 times its raw size. White basmati rice takes less water and less time to cook than ordinary long-grain rice: try using equal quantities of rice to water. Unhulled or brown basmati has even more flavour and takes longer to cook.
Bhutanese red rice hails from the small Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan. This is a short-
grain red rice that cooks in 20 minutes and finishes with a nutty, earthy flavour and a red russet colour. If unavailable from delis or Asian grocers, substitute with Christmas rice (or as a last resort, another short-grain rice).
Black glutinous rice is also known as ‘black sticky rice’ or ‘black forbidden rice’. 
It has a much richer flavour than white sticky rice and can be either medium- or long-grain. Once cooked, black rice is a deep, dark purple with a nutty flavour and a wholegrain texture. Because of its striking appearance, it is often used for festive desserts, steamed in banana leaves or in salads. Before cooking (particularly if you plan to steam the rice), soak in water overnight; this allows the rice to absorb water, swell and then cook in less time. 
Black japonica rice is a hybrid of a red medium-grain and a black short-grain japonica 
type of rice. It is often sold unhulled and therefore cooks like a brown rice (about 45 minutes). 
Broken rice is the damaged white rice which is separated from the intact grain at the 
production stage, and is used in other areas such as animal feed, beer brewing or flour processing. 
Brown rice has a chewier texture and nuttier flavour, is a natural source of bran, and 
is high in fibre and vitamin B. The difference between brown and white rice is that brown has had only the hull or husk removed, leaving the bran intact. This long-grain rice takes longer to cook than white rice (about 40–45 minutes). 
Calrose rice is also known as sushi rice. It is quite round and short and belongs to 
the japonica group.
Carolina rice is a long-grain rice originally grown in that part of America at the end 
of the 17th century. It is now grown throughout the US.
Christmas rice is a short-grain red rice. When cooked, it has a sticky, dense character 
and a musky aroma.
Converted rice is also known as ‘parboiled rice’. In fact, it hasn’t been parboiled but 
rather soaked, steamed and dried before being husked or hulled. It retains more nutrients than white rice and, due to reduced surface starch, stays well separated after being cooked. It cooks perfectly in approximately 20 minutes. 
Dirty rice is a recipe rather than a type of rice. It is white rice cooked with minced 
chicken livers, gizzards, onions and seasonings, giving it its ‘dirty’ appearance. This Cajun specialty is far more tasty than it sounds.
Fermented rice is used in Asian desserts and in savoury dishes where its sweetness can 
counterbalance a salty or sour dish. This sweet rice has a small alcohol content and is available in most Asian grocers. 
Flattened rice (or rice flakes) is used in desserts or batters. It sometimes has a 
slight green colouring, produced by the introduction of pandanus.
Glutinous rice, despite its name, contains no gluten. Rather, the name describes the 
sticky nature of the rice once cooked. This short-grain rice is used in sushi and Asian desserts. It may also be referred to as ‘sticky rice’, ‘sweet rice’ or ‘Chinese sweet rice’ (again, this is about the way it is used rather than its content; there is no sugar in the grain), as well as ‘botan rice’, ‘Japanese rice’, ‘mochi rice’, ‘pearl rice’, ‘sushi rice’ and ‘waxy rice’.