The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 518Himalayan red rice is a long-grain rice which can be substituted for brown rice—the 
only difference is the colour of the husk.
Instant rice, or ‘precooked rice’ as it is sometimes called, is not always readily 
available, is more expensive and, with its mushy texture and insipid flavour, is less 
appealing than ordinary rice. It has been precooked and dehydrated and is available white or brown, taking 5 and 10 minutes respectively to cook. Instant rice might help if you’re in a hurry but considering normal rice takes only 15–20 minutes to cook, why bother with an inferior product? If a recipe calls for precooked rice, be clear whether this means instant rice or rice that has been boiled or steamed by you earlier.
Jasmine rice has a perfume more like pandanus than jasmine flowers; the name in fact 
refers to the pearl-like sheen of the grain. This long-grain aromatic rice is favoured in Thailand and has become popular worldwide. Jasmine takes less water and less time to cook than normal long-grain rice: Try using equal quantities of rice to water. Leftover cold jasmine rice makes excellent fried rice. It is also known as ‘hom mali rice’ or simply ‘fragrant rice’.
Kalijira rice (also known as ‘baby basmati rice’) is a fast-cooking, short-grain rice 
favoured in desserts. Kalijira rice is produced in Bangladesh.
Patna rice is a long-grain rice originally from the region Bihar (the capital of which 
is Patna) in India. The name now describes a generic, long-grain white rice that is grown the world over. 
Pearl rice is another name for short-grain rice (and is different from ‘pearled rice’ 
which simply refers to white rice in general).
Pecan rice or wild pecan rice is a new hybrid similar to popcorn rice and basmati. It 
has a long grain with a chewy texture and nutty flavour and aroma.
Popcorn rice is a new hybrid similar to, but cheaper than, basmati. When cooked, it 
has the aroma of—what else?—popcorn. Available in white and brown, it is also known as ‘American basmati’, ‘della rice’ and ‘gourmet rice’.
Popped rice is also known as ‘poona rice’, available in Indian produce stores and is 
used in festive desserts and sweetmeats.
Risotto rice is, as the name suggests, used specifically for making risotto. It is a 
medium-grain rice with a characteristic white dot in the centre of the grain. There are several varieties, each claiming to produce the best risotto, including carnaroli, vialone nano (or simply nano), arborio, baldo, Padano and Roma. Washing risotto rice is a big no-no. The more starches left with the grain, the creamier the risotto. Some brands claim that no stirring is required, thus freeing you from the stove for 15–20 minutes, but old-school risotto lovers will tell you that the best risotto is one that has been worked constantly with a wooden spoon, so as to have the rice grains trounce one another, rendering maximum starch which in turn produces the creamy texture. Risotto rice is sometimes called ‘Piedmont rice’.
Rough rice or paddy rice is the unhulled kernel, which is inedible until it is 
processed for cooking or packaging.
Spanish rice can be medium- or long-grain. Valencia produces a medium- to short-grain 
style that is favoured for paella (long-grain rice is never used for paella), and another paella rice is granza rice. Andalucia produces a long-grain rice perfect for pilaff. For rice dishes of Spain, the rice is never washed; the starch too valuable to run down the sink. 
White rice is also known as ‘polished rice’, ‘pearled rice’ (pearled as in polished) or 
‘fully milled rice’, due to it being stripped of its husk and bran layers.