The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 519Wild rice is also known as ‘Indian rice’. You’ve heard it before, now hear it again—
wild rice is not a rice at all but a grass seed (a trifle confusing, as essentially rice 
is a grass seed too). It takes longer to cook than white rice, has more nutrients and a nutty flavour and chewy texture that suits poultry, game meats and vegetable dishes. Rinse then cook for 40–50 minutes, after which time most of the grains will have split open or ‘blossomed’ but still retain a bite. 
Salt
Love it or hate it, salt is essential to our diets. As our bodies cannot produce salts for themselves, they rely on us to find it. Then it becomes an issue of what type and how much we should feed our bodies. Some home cooks, made paranoid by the propaganda of ‘too much salt causes high blood pressure and heart attacks’ and believing that our salt requirements can be met with Vegemite on toast for breakfast, omit salt from all cooking, presenting the family with bland meals. Meals in restaurants often taste significantly better than those cooked at home. Other than the fact that food cooked by anyone other than yourself seems to taste better anyway, the reason for this could be as simple as the professional cook’s respect for salt’s place in food. Basically, good quality salt enhances the natural flavour of food. You should add salt not once but several times in small amounts, tasting and testing in between each addition.
As well as standard table and cooking salts, many fancy salts are now on the market. 
These can be better for you but unfortunately often carry heavy price tags, so rarely grace the home kitchen. I recommend the more affordable and still excellent quality salt flakes for the home cook. 
Tips for using salT:
* Add small amounts of salt several times, stirring and tasting between each addition. 
* Before reaching for the salt shaker on the table, whether at home or in a restaurant, 
taste the food! Chances are, the cook has added just the right amount. High on the list of 
what chefs hate is the customer who dowses the meal in salt and pepper before trying even one mouthful. (Equally annoying to the customer is the waiter with the baseball-bat-sized pepper grinder offering you pepper before you’ve tasted your meal—next time ask them to leave the grinder with you until you’ve tried your food.) 
problem solving
* Added too much salt? Act immediately! Remove everything you dropped in, even if it means 
scooping out some of the other ingredients (they can always be replaced). Stir the mixture 
well. Or add a peeled potato or two and cook gently until the potatoes have absorbed most of the salt. Gently remove and discard the potato.
* Still too salty and you can’t bring yourself to throw it out? Cool down completely then 
freeze in smaller portions. Use one of these frozen salt blocks the next time you prepare the same dish by adding it (defrosted overnight) to the new batch. 
* Need to eat less salt? First, note that salt (especially iodised salt) is important to 
our natural diet and it’s not recommended to omit it completely. If you need to reduce your salt intake for medical reasons: 
—use a salt that is low in sodium—replace salt with seaweed granules