The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 520—use salt-reduced products
—check product labels for key words—sodium, salt, soy sauce, brine, corned, pickled, cured and smoked—as these can indicate excess salt—make your own stocks instead of using packaged cubes or Tetra packs.
Types of salT
Black salt is a true misnomer if ever there was one, as this is a grey/pink salt, mined 
from the Ganges plains in central India. Ask for black salt in Indian food stores. Its characteristic smoky flavour and pungent smell means you cannot make a true Indian chaat (a type of salad) without it. 
Celtic sea salt is a hand-farmed salt from the marshlands of Brittany. (Like any farmed 
product, a good crop depends on the weather.) Natural Celtic sea salt is sold as fine white crystals or larger grey crystals. The unwashed, almost dirty, appearance of this salt ensures that it retains all its natural goodness. 
Cooking salt is slightly coarser than table salt, and is often made up of several 
salts. It is used in bulk in commercial kitchens. This is the best salt to season the water for cooking pasta, rather than wasting your good sea salt or salt flakes. 
Fleur de sel translates as ‘flower of salt’. It is hand-harvested like Celtic sea salt, 
and used as a finishing salt, in small quantities. Fleur de sel is produced from the salt crust on top of the salt pond, so it is the least salty and purest part of the saline. It is taken from a single day’s harvest. See also Sel gris.
Hawaiian black lava salt is a sea salt that is evaporated with purified black lava rock, 
then mixed with activated charcoal for its colour and apparent detoxifying effects. Although hard to find, it can be ordered over the internet.
Hawaiian red clay salt or red alae salt is a sea salt harvested in ponds, with baked 
Hawaiian clay added after it is dried. It can be ordered over the internet.
Iodised salt has a small amount of potassium iodide added to help prevent goitre, a 
thyroid condition. As little as 40 mg of potassium iodide is added per kilogram of near pure sodium chloride. 
Korean bamboo salt or red bamboo salt (biosalt) is made from sun-dried salt stuffed 
into bamboo hollows and sealed with yellow clay. It is then baked 9 times, for 8 hours each time. After each baking period, the bamboo stub is replaced. The resultant salt is red in colour, sweet-flavoured, and very salty, and its odour may not be appealing. High in minerals, bamboo salt is favoured in medicine, cosmetics and cleaning, and as a finishing salt in cooking. 
Kosher salt, because it is. Kosher salt can be an overly refined salt with little 
nutrient value, sourced, like table salt from land deposits, or Kosher sea salt, a crystal salt with no additives, ideal for pickling meats because of its larger crystal that absorbs moisture. Kosher sea salt is best in a salt grinder if it is to be used as a table salt.
Malian red clay salt or Saharan salt is valued in Africa (and by a few New York chefs, 
hell-bent on unearthing another trendy salt to adorn their menu). It is sourced from salt mines just south of the Sahara in Mali, Africa.
Murray River salt harvested from the underground brines of the Murray–Darling Basin in 
Victoria acts not only as a top-end flake salt for restaurants and the domestic market, but more importantly is one answer to controlling the ever-increasing salinity problem of that area. The earthy, light pink salt is favoured by chefs and gourmet cooks Australia-wide.
Pink Peruvian lake salt is a form of sea salt harvested from wells lined with rose 
quartz. The pink colouring comes from the tiny pieces of rose quartz present in the salts. 