The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 521The Incas and Mayans have used this salt for its powerful spiritual and healing properties. 
You can eat it at a top New York restaurant, then contemplate the spiritual healing the salt has brought you as you pay for the meal. If money isn’t an issue, buy a quarter of a pound of the stuff and bathe in it. 
Rock salt is procured from halite, a mineral that was once a sea salt but is now buried 
underground, sometimes in very large deposits. The rock salt is mined and ground into coarse chunks. Further refining to different-sized grains produces cooking salt or table salt. The coarse rock crystals can be used in a salt mill or dropped straight into water for cooking pasta. They are also used when curing meats like salmon (gravlax) or preserving lemons and in baking where large cuts of meat or whole fish are coated in a thick slurry of salt mixed with a little water or egg white.
Saltpetre or potassium nitrate is classed as a salt and preserving agent. A pinch of 
saltpetre added to a duck liver parfait mixture before it is cooked keeps it pink on the inside long after it has cooled.
Salt spray is a pure form of seawater used as a seasoning and sold in pump spray 
bottles. On the rare occasion I’ve used salt spray, I have found its simplicity appealing, although it is similar to fish sauce, in that it requires delicate handling to avoid oversalting. Use a ratio of 2 sprays = 1 pinch of regular salt.
Sea salt and rock salt are the preferred salts for everyday cooking. Sea salt has a 
high mineral content and a clean salty flavour, and is sold as coarse crystals, flakes or granules. In a bygone era, it was referred to as ‘bay salt’. Maldon sea salt is a globally recognised salt-flake brand, which has spawned the trend for other countries to cash in on this abundant mineral. 
Sel gris is from the same farmers who bring you Celtic sea salt and fleur de sel. 
However, sel gris is harvested throughout an entire season (for every 150 kg sel gris produced, only about 10 kg fleur de sel is harvested). 
Smoked salt can lend a little of its smoky character to a casserole or steak. Styles 
available include hickory-smoked sea salt, Mediterranean oak-smoked sea salt, and the elusive and extremely expensive smoked Danish salt. 
Table salt is the most refined product of rock salt. It contains anti-caking agents such 
as calcium silicate added (at less than 0.5 per cent) to ensure that it flows freely in any weather condition, especially in the tropics where humidity plays havoc with dry food. Table salt is a very fine-grained, harsh-tasting salt. 
SauceS
Ah, sauces! Those magical liquids that can cover a cook’s feeble mistakes or, at best, lift the main ingredient to new heights. For some, meat without sauce is like the moon without darkness; while for others, making a sauce is an arduous task. For these people, I say widen your view of what a sauce is—think of bolognaise or any stew or casserole.
Butter sauces vary from the rich beurre blanc to a simple herb or flavoured butter which 
becomes a sauce as it melts over the meat or dish. Add butter to pan juices with wine or stock to help thicken the sauce. The trick is to remove the pan from the heat then add small cubes of butter, whisking or stirring until it has melted. Do not boil once the butter has been incorporated as it will split. Flavoured butters can be rolled first in plastic wrap, then in foil to hold their shape, then refrigerated until solid. When hard, cut into rounds and freeze in a plastic bag for later use. 
The most common egg-based sauces are emulsion sauces, made up of eggs (or more often just 