55
 Steamed DumplingsHAR GOW
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
These iconic steamed dumplings steal the show on any dim sum cart. Their translucent 
wrappers give us a peek into the mouthwatering, blush-colored shrimp filling inside. Serve 
these directly from the baskets with the dipping sauce on the side.
12 ounces shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
roughly chopped
1/ 4 cup minced 
bamboo shoots
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon soy sauce
1 batch Crystal Dumpling 
Dough (page 21)
Nonstick cooking spray
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce 
(page 98), for serving
Cooking tiP: This dump-
ling dough is very pliable, so 
you can use a tortilla press to 
create wrappers with a consis-
tent thickness and size.1. Make the filling: Set 1/2 cup of shrimp aside. In a 
food processor, combine the remaining shrimp, 
bamboo shoots, cornstarch, ginger, rice wine, 
sesame oil, and soy sauce. Pulse to form a coarse 
paste. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and 
stir in the reserved shrimp. Cover the bowl and 
refrigerate for 30 minutes, or up to 1 day.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer.
6. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets 
with cooking spray. Arrange the dumplings in the 
baskets with at least 1 inch of space around them.
7. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
simmer. Steam for 8 to 9 minutes, or until the filling 
turns pink and the wrappers are translucent.