The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 522egg yolks) combined slowly with a fat, either oil or butter; mayonnaise and hollandaise with 
its ten or so derivatives are probably the best known. Sabayon can be either sweet or savoury and consists of eggs or egg yolks combined with a liquid (stock, juice or alcohol), then whisked until light or ribbon stage. It is cooked in the top of a double boiler, and great care must be taken not to overcook or scramble the egg. Sabayon can be the beginning of a hollandaise sauce or can be used as a sauce on its own, as in zabaglione, a sweetened sabayon served with sponge biscuits. Another common egg-based sauce is crème anglaise or English custard, a sweetened egg yolk mixture cooked with cream then gently heated to thicken (again with great care as boiling the sauce can lead to separation or curdling). Cold, hard egg sauces such as sauce Gribiche, sauce Vincent, Cambridge sauce and sauce Sardalaise are often served with fish, shellfish, tongue or, if you’re in the mood and who isn’t, calf’s head. 
Purees, whether from fruit, nuts or vegetables, make a good alternative to other more 
time-consuming sauces. Cook the ingredients then thicken with a béchamel (white) sauce, cream, butter, flour (or other starch) or by reducing to enhance the quality of this style of sauce. 
See recipes in Dressings, Sauces and Butters.
How to tH icken a Sauce 
Deglaze the pan but don’t let the liquid evaporate entirely. Now thicken the sauce by reducing it (continue to cook the sauce over high heat until much of it evaporates and the remaining liquid is intensified in flavour) or by adding another ingredient, such as butter, cream, blue cheese, cornflour, arrowroot or potato or rice flour (mixed first with a little cold water) and cooking gently to combine. A beurre manié (2 parts soft butter mixed with 1 part flour) is another thickening option but I don’t favour it as the flour particles need time to cook out and the method doesn’t provide this extra time. (The method is to add a beurre manié to the boiling liquid, bring it back to the boil, then turn off the heat source. This leaves the sauce with a grainy texture.) 
ProBlem Solving
* Burnt sauce? Try to disguise it by adding a strong flavour profile, such as Vegemite, 
peanut butter, fruit juice, vinegar, Worcestershire sauce or chilli sauce. Or throw the 
sauce away and serve the meal with a wedge of lemon instead. 
* Lumpy sauce or gravy? Strain the sauce through a sieve. To avoid lumpy sauce in future, 
use a sauce whisk (metal or plastic) as you begin to bring the sauce together, then use a wooden spoon while the sauce simmers. 
* Added too much salt? The only answer is to sacrifice the few to save the many—ladle out 
the drop zone, including sauce, then bulk out the remaining sauce with stock, cream or wine. Or, if you’ve mixed in the salt already, pour off two-thirds of it (freeze this in an ice tray and use later as instant salt cubes to add flavour to future sauces), then bulk out the remaining sauce with stock, cream or wine.
* Curdled or split/separated dressing or sauce? Remember Rule No. 1: follow the recipe. 
If a method states ‘add slowly’, then snail’s pace is fast enough. There is no rushing the first stage of making a mayonnaise or hollandaise (or any derivative of these emulsion-type sauces). Get it right the first time and spare yourself the agony of repairing it. If an emulsion sauce is looking a bit thin, start adding small amounts of very hot water—this will aid in ‘cooking’ the egg within the sauce, helping to bring it back. Then slowly add the oil again. If the sauce has separated, start again, using 1 fresh egg yolk at room temperature. This time add the separated sauce to the egg instead of oil. 