The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 523Seafood
Abalone is available fresh, tinned, frozen and dried, each requiring different treatment. To 
shuck fresh abalone from the shell, cut the connector muscle then pry out the flesh. Trim and discard the viscera (soft organs), remove the dark skin from the foot and scrub the meat to remove the black coating. The cleaned abalone can now be cut into thick steaks against the grain of the meat, then tenderised. (Note that pounding fresh abalone flesh to within an inch of disintegration is frowned upon by Asian cooks, who take immense pride in serving this expensive product; one does not need to treat abalone like octopus to guarantee tenderness.) Fresh abalone need only be sliced very thinly and cooked very quickly, whether poached (steamboat style) or stir-fried. In a restaurant, fresh abalone should be presented to you in the shell, with the wriggling flesh exposed, before being taken away and cooked. Frozen abalone is not a substitute for the fresh product. It is better suited to soups or stewed in rich sauces and is the least exciting of the abalone styles available. Dried abalone resembles a rock, both in appearance and in texture, but the drying process, considered an art form in Japan, actually enhances the flavour. Experienced Chinese chefs cook dried abalone whole, in a sauce that is considered just as important as the abalone itself. The recipe is a well-kept secret, but involves a rich stock of chicken, pork and ham, and up to 13 hours of slow cooking. Abalone is also known as ‘paua’ in New Zealand.
Bacalao is dried salted cod, popular in Italy, Spain and France. The best bacalao is 
said to come from Norway as it is less salty and softer. To prepare bacalao for cooking, soak for 2–3 days in cold water, changing the water 2–3 times a day. It can now be served with rice, and cooked in casseroles, stews and risottos, among many other dishes—the Portuguese claim more than 300 uses for this salty fish. Baccalà is one of the many alternative spellings.
Crab should be bought either alive or precooked. When buying live, look for a creature 
that has a bit of kick in it. Crabs are usually tied with twine to prevent them from latching onto stray fingers. When buying precooked crustaceans, the outer shell should be bright orange to red in colour, free from any disagreeable odours, with white, firm flesh on the inside. Soft, pasty flesh indicates an animal that was stressed before being cooked. As a general guide: 450 g crab in the shell will yield 1 cup flaked crab meat.
How to cook live crab
The RSPCA recommends crabs be placed in the freezer for 4–5 hours before cooking. 
Alternatively, they can be drowned in a tub of water (although this takes 6–8 hours). If cooked alive, crabs will shed their limbs. Bring sea water or salted water (1 litre water to 
½ cup rock salt) to a vigorous boil, then add the crab and cook for about 8 minutes for 
every 500 g. The shell will turn a bright orange when the crab is cooked. Lift out of the water and place in a tub of chilled water or under cold running water, then refrigerate. This fully cooked crab is now ready to be picked over. If you plan to sauté the crab, it should merely be blanched in boiling water first: use the method above but remove from the water and cool after 5 minutes. 
Crab stick is also known as ‘sea legs’ or ‘surimi’. There’s not even a whiff of crab in a 
crab stick. It is made from white fish, usually Alaskan pollock (also used to make other fake seafood products such as imitation scallops or prawns or fish patties). Real Californian rolls should be made with the leg meat of crab, kept whole, not thin strips of this faux crab.
Crayfish are a freshwater crustacean (although usage of the word varies—see Rock 
lobster). Crayfish species are abundant in North America and Australasia (100 or so species 