The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 524in Australia and 250 in North America) but less common in most other parts of the world. 
Crayfish are generally much smaller than rock lobsters, with many species considered too small to eat. The Tasmanian crayfish (endangered) is the largest in the world, followed by the Murray River crayfish (hard to find). Yabbies, redclaw and marron are three well-known crayfish in Australia. Marron is the third largest freshwater crayfish in the world, and is indigenous to Western Australia. Its meat is considered to be the finest of all crayfish. About 31 per cent of its total body weight is meat (compared to 15–20 per cent for yabbies). Redclaw, a native of Queensland, is best eaten in that region, as it does not travel well. The American crawfish is a smaller version of the Australian yabby.
All of the species of crayfish have many edible parts: the tail, the claws, the 
‘mustard’ and the ‘coral’, and the shell can also be used to flavour soups and sauces. The tail and claws represent about 40 per cent of total body weight. The ‘mustard’ is the orange-brown liver found in the carapace (main shell) which connoisseurs enjoy spread over the tail meat. The ‘coral’ is the developing egg sac found in the carapace of the female, which can be eaten on its own or whisked into a sauce.
Crayfish and lobster should be bought either alive or precooked, not dead and raw. When 
buying them live, look for a lively creature: The tail should tuck underneath and not hang down when the crustacean is picked up. When buying precooked crustaceans, all of the outer shell should be bright orange to red in colour, free from any disagreeable odours, with firm white flesh on the inside. Soft, pasty flesh indicates an animal that was stressed before being cooked.
How to cook live crayfisH
Place in the freezer for 2–3 hours to avoid stressing the animals by cooking them while 
still alive. Drop into boiling salted water until they have turned a bright orange/red. Remove and refresh in iced water. 
Jellyfish is often sold dried and salted. It is favoured for its crunchy texture rather 
than flavour. Soak for 24 hours, changing the water several times, then drop into boiling water for 15–20 seconds. I suggest shredding finely and using in a salad. 
Marinara mix or seafood extender might be convenient but resembles cat food in its 
quality. This pre-mixed array of poor quality seafood will never be touched by anyone who values the succulence of fresh seafood. Instead, try making your own as a special occasion treat: simply combine a selection of fresh seafood and fish pieces.
Mussels, like all shellfish, are at their best when still alive and in their shell. 
Before buying, check whether they’re alive by tapping the shell, which will then tightly close. Any with gaping shells are dead, and should not be purchased. The ‘beard’ of a mussel is actually the byssal threads, produced by glands near the foot area, which allow the mussel to cling to rocks or hard surfaces in the water. 
How to de-beard a mussel
To remove the beard, yank it firmly towards the hinge of the mussel rather than the opening 
end. (Pulling towards the opening will kill the mussel and can rip out some of the inner flesh.) 
Octopus—the best tip for cooking octopus is to tenderise the flesh before cooking. 
Ideally this is done by beating over a rock in the Greek Islands. Alternatively, precook by blanching in water, tenderise with a meat mallet, or rub with daikon for its tenderising properties. Some people are allergic to the handling of sea creatures and so food-handling 