The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 525gloves are recom mended. Buy tentacles or a whole baby octopus, and if you don’t fancy 
cleaning the guts out at home, buy them pre-cleaned. They should be firm to touch and sweet to smell, with no slimy residue or wafts of ammonia.
Oysters—all shellfish should be bought when still alive and in their shell, but this 
is particularly important nectar: if you buy oysters that have already been shucked, they should be plump, with a natural creamy colour and a clear liquid.
Prawns are usually known as shrimp in the US (although sometimes the word ‘prawns’ can 
be used to denote large, extra-large and jumbo prawns), but elsewhere ‘shrimp’ refers to very small, peeled prawns, as in the classic retro dish, shrimp cocktail— usually frozen or 
in brine or those labelled for the US export market. They are also sometimes called ‘jumbo shrimp’ or ‘shrimp scampi’ in the US. The many species of prawns available worldwide ensure varied flavours, but wherever you are, the methods for buying and handling prawns are the same.
Uncooked prawns are green-grey and can be purchased with the shell on or as cutlets 
(shell off). I advise you to buy whole green prawns, but if you do buy pre-cooked, they should be plump and bright orange, with no signs of having been defrosted. (Frozen cooked prawns can be watery, rubbery or flavourless when defrosted.) As a general rule: 325 g cooked prawns in the shell will yield 1 cup of prawn meat.
PreParing and de-veining Prawns 
Most recipes suggest de-veining prawns (removing their digestive sac, also known as the sand 
vein) either before or after cooking, as it is too unsightly or gritty for many people. However, it is edible, and some don’t mind it. Occasionally, a batch of prawns can have a very clean vein, and usually the veins of small prawns or shrimp are too small to be removed and contain little if any digestive matter. Sometimes a mass of green, beige or orange goop covers the digestive sac from head to tail, mostly at the head end. This is the prawn ovary, the different colours representing the different stages of the ovary, which turns orange or cream once cooked. (But now you know what it is, will you ever eat it again?) While prawns can be peeled and de-veined either before or after cooking, before cooking is probably better if they are to be served whole, after cooking if they are to be presented in a salad. 
How to cook wH ole raw Prawns 
Bring seawater or salted water (1 litre water to 
½ cup rock salt) to a vigorous boil, then 
add the prawns and cook until they curl and turn a bright orange. (Another sign they are 
cooked is when they float on the surface.) Lift out the prawns and drop into iced water. Do not reheat or re-cook pre-cooked prawns.
How to de-vein wH ole green P rawns
Use a skewer or a toothpick to pierce the meat at the top of the head end, just below where 
the vein runs. Gently lift and jiggle the skewer, and as you lift the vein should begin to release itself from the body of meat. 
OR 
Run a small knife blade along the back of the prawn, enough to pierce the flesh and scrape out the vein. This method is great if the prawns are to be butterflied for quick cooking and presentation.