The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 526Ray and skate are similar fish in appearance, although ray have long wire-like tails, 
while skate are larger and have a shorter, stumpier tail. None of this stops the names being 
used interchangeably. The wings of both are the only edible part. They are sold with or without skin (as it can be hard to remove, I suggest you buy skinless). Beware of ray and skate wings being passed off as scallops in cheap restaurants after being cut into disks of the same shape—the taste isn’t dissimilar but the texture can be stringy. 
Rock lobster and crayfish are names that are continually interchanged, and shouldn’t be. 
Australian rock lobsters (in Europe called ‘spiny lobster’, ‘lobster’ or ‘European lobster’) do not have front claws; while the American lobster is prized for its large front claws; and the Norwegian lobster, while smaller, is also adorned with front claws. Flat lobsters are also known as ‘shovel-nosed lobsters’, ‘butterfly crays’ and ‘slipper lobsters’. Two common Australian species are the Balmain bug and the Moreton Bay bug. 
Scallops are rarely sold live, as they must be gutted as well as shucked, leaving 
only the white abductor muscle and the roe (the orange, pink or light tan-coloured flesh attached to the meat). Shucked scallops should be plump, with no sign of damage to the roe. Interestingly, scallops are hermaphrodites—that is, a single scallop has both male and female organs, and the roe or gonad takes on an orange, pink or purple colour (female ovary) or white to pale tan colour (male testis) at different times.
Scallops should be served medium-rare—in other words, barely cooked on the inside, for 
the best flavour and to retain succulence. Cook them quickly on a high heat: 30 seconds to 1 minute is all it takes in most cases. Frozen scallops, although of a good standard, do retain water. After defrosting, cook them separately from the sauce so they don’t water it down, then add to the sauce just before serving. Some recipes ask for the roe (the pinky-orange bit) to be removed from the eye or abductor muscle (the round, white bit). This is because some people don’t like the stronger flavour of the roe (or the fact that it is the reproductive gland)—so it’s really a matter of personal preference. In the US, the eye of the scallop is preferred and is sold without the roe; in Europe, the roe is often kept on. 
The best scallops are, of course, bought fresh, in the shell, to be shucked yourself.Dried scallops are used sparingly (they’re expensive) to sweeten or add flavour to 
soups, stews and stocks, especially high quality stock. They should be soaked in water for 30 minutes before use.
Scampi are also known as ‘Dublin Bay prawns’, ‘Norway lobsters’, ‘deep sea lobsters’, 
‘lobsterettes’ (US) or ‘langoustines’ (France). Scampi resemble giant prawns (hence the confusion) although the species is classified as a lobster. True scampi, like those caught in deep-sea fishing off New Zealand or Australia, are a narrow pincer-clawed species with slender bodies and a more delicate flavour than rock lobster. Be wary of restaurants in the US that serve ‘shrimp scampi’, believing diners will think of it as a special Italian dish because it’s cooked with garlic and olive oil or butter—what next, ‘veal vitello’?
Shark—a dozen or so edible species of shark are caught for their meat, although as 
many as half of the 350 species are deemed useless to the fishing industry (only 7 per cent are classed as highly important). Shark is similar in appearance to dogfish, and the several species of dogfish as well as the elephant fish can be referred to as shark. All shark is marketed as ‘flake’ in its filleted form. Flake is popular in fish and chip shops for its price and the fact that it is boneless. Squid, calamari and cuttlefish are all in the same family. Sometimes ‘calamari’ and ‘squid’ are used interchangeably, and although separately they could be mistaken for one another, line them up and the differences are apparent. The word ‘calamari’ is often mistakenly used to describe cleaned squid and, just to confuse matters, is a term used by Italians and 