The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 527Greeks to describe more than one squid. Cuttlefish is a stumpier type of squid, favoured by 
professional cooks for its stronger flavour, tenderness and its ink. 
Cuttlefish, squid and calamari should be bought whole. Pre-cut calamari or squid rings 
tend to be cut from a larger specimen, and the larger the creature, the tougher it will be.
Dried squid is enjoyed as a late-night drinking snack. It can also be used as a 
seasoning, soaked and then shredded before adding to soups, sauces, stir-fries and salads.
SpiceS
Spices, like dried herbs, should be used as close to their date of manufacture as possible. Many people believe a jar of supermarket spice will outlive their grandchildren, when in fact it is probably already past its pungent best. Best of all is to buy whole spices and grind them as you need them. And as the spice snob knows all too well, the best place to buy a particular spice is from a shop based on the cuisine it is used in which ensures a high turnover of that spice. 
The list below will help you identify which spices are associated with which cuisines 
so you can source them from a grocer dealing in that produce. It concentrates on indigenous spices with some common spices in daily use: 
Africa—allspice, chilli, clove, coriander seed, cumin seed, ginger, pepper; Australia—lemon myrtle, Tasmanian pepper;Central and northern Europe—aniseed, black pepper, blue fenugreek, caraway seed, 
celery seed, cinnamon, clove, dill seed, fennel seed, juniper berry, nutmeg, paprika, poppy seed, saffron;
South Asia—ajowan, black cardamom, black cumin, cardamom, chilli, cinnamon, ginger, 
turmeric;
South-east and east Asia—cassia, chilli, clove, cubeb pepper, Indonesian and 
Vietnamese cinnamon, galangal, garlic, ginger, nutmeg, Sichuan pepper, star anise, turmeric;
Mediterranean region—allspice, aniseed, black pepper, cardamom, cinnamon, clove, 
coriander seed, cumin, fennel, fenugreek, mace, nutmeg, onion seed, saffron, sumac, thyme;
West and central Asia—asafoetida, black mustard seed, cardamom, chilli, cumin seed, 
dill seed, fenugreek, garlic, ginger, poppy seed;
West India and the Americas—allspice, cayenne, celery seed, chilli, clove, filé, 
paprika, vanilla.
Spice mixeS  and paS teS
Making your own spice mix is a rewarding culinary challenge that is, unfortunately, rarely undertaken due to the many commercial products available. Recipes for spice mixes can be found in specific cookbooks and on the internet—choose reputable recipes that encourage the use of the freshest possible ingredients. If you’re not prepared to make your own, then I recommend pastes available at Indian or Asian food stores or from the family flogging their wares at the local Sunday market. 
The aromatics of spices are activated and heightened when exposed to heat. This is why 
pastes are sautéed before being added to other ingredients, and whole spices are dry-roasted before grinding and mixing into a spice mix. To dry-roast means to cook in a dry pan over medium heat, remembering to shake the pan or stir. Spices should be dry-roasted one at a 