The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 528time as different spices take different lengths of time and you will be in danger of burning 
some if you cook them all together. Remove from the heat when the spice begins to smoke and transfer to another dish immediately to stop the cooking. Crush whole spices in a mortar and pestle, a food processor, a pepper grinder or a coffee grinder. (After putting spices through a coffee grinder, clean it by grinding a handful of plain rice.) See also Bengali five spice; Garam masala; Kebsa; Mixed spice; Quatre épices; Ras el hanout; Togarashi.
Types of spice
Ajowan is a member of a large family of spices that includes cumin, dill and caraway. The dried seed is reasonably hot with a strong thyme-like flavour. It is used mostly in Indian cuisine. 
Allspice is the dried, unripe berry from a tree of the myrtle family. Although the name 
suggests a mix of different spices, in fact it derives from the aroma’s likeness to a mix of cloves, cinnamon, pepper and nutmeg. If necessary, you can replace allspice with equal parts of those four spices. Not to be confused with mixed spice, allspice is also known as ‘English spice’ and ‘Jamaica pepper’ (and in some places ‘pimento’). For really fresh allspice, buy the whole berry and pound or grind your own powder.
Anise is similar in appearance to dill seed. Although often used in cakes and biscuits, 
it is mainly harvested for use in alcohol (Pernod, ouzo and raki). Anise should not be confused with star anise.
Anise pepper see Sichuan pepper.Annatto is a small, triangular, brick-red spice with only the slightest sweet and 
peppery flavour. It is used more often as a colouring, in cheese, butter and confectionery, and in Filipino, Latin American and Caribbean cuisine (described in Food by Waverley Root as a spice ‘with which red Americans colored their bodies and white Americans color their butter’). There is no real substitute for annatto, as few other foods can provide this natural food colouring without also imparting their stronger individual flavour, thus the similarly coloured saffron, turmeric or paprika will alter the nature of the dish. A small quantity of cochineal will impart a deep-red hue similar to annatto (but then vegans would miss out, as cochineal is made from crushed and dried beetles). Also known as ‘achiote’, annatto can be bought in Asian and Indian grocers.
Asafoetida is sometimes called ‘giant fennel’, although it smells nothing like fennel 
and comes from the sap of the stem or roots of the asafoetida plant (a member of the parsley family). What it does smell like is more in tune with its colloquial names, ‘stinking gum’ or ‘devil’s dung’. The name comes from the Persian word ‘aza’ meaning ‘resin’ and the Latin word ‘fetida’ meaning ‘stinking’. The unpleasant smell mellows when cooked, however, leaving an aroma more like onion. Important in any authentic Indian or Middle Eastern cooking, it is used in place of garlic and as a flavour enhancer and a digestive aid. 
Bengali five spice or panch phora is used in curries and for fried vegetable and seafood 
dishes. It contains cumin seed, fennel seed, fenugreek seed, mustard seeds and nigella seeds.
Black onion seeds see Nigella.Caraway is from the same family as parsley. Its fresh leaves and roots can also be 
eaten but most often the caraway seed is eaten (technically the fruit of the plant). Caraway seeds taste of a combination of dill and anise with a tangy, almost nutty flavour and are popular in the cuisines of Austria, southern Germany and North Africa. When a recipe calls for you to grind your own caraway seeds, you will find it hard going unless you dry-roast them first. The roasted seeds are much easier to crush. 