The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 529Cardamom is sold as powder, seeds or pods. The pods can be green or off-white. The 
more common green cardamom is the Indian variety; white cardamom, the size of a pea, is 
less common and less pungent than the green. Black or brown cardamom is a different spice which has a camphorous taste, and cannot be interchanged with green cardamom. If the recipe calls for seeds or powder, it is best to buy cardamom in pods and remove or grind the seeds yourself. (Roast the pods whole before removing the seeds.) Often the pod is simply bruised (crushed with the flat of a knife) and added whole to the dish. 
Chinese five-spice powder is used as a seasoning in sauces, marinades and cooked red 
meat dishes. It contains equal parts cinnamon, cloves, fennel seeds, star anise and Sichuan pepper. 
Chinese pepper see Sichuan pepper.Cinnamon can be bought as sticks (quills) or ground. The best quality cinnamon is 
Ceylon cinnamon, Indonesian cinnamon is a medium quality option, and Vietnamese cinnamon is of poor quality, resembling cassia in appearance and flavour.
Cloves tend to lose volatile oils through evaporation, so shouldn’t be stored for 
long periods. To check freshness, drop some in water: if they sink or float upright, all is well, but if they lie on their side, they are stale. I have seen fresh cloves on the stem in markets, looking evocative with their pink and light-green buds, but have found no references to using them in cooking. These unopened buds from the clove tree can be picked from the stem, laid on a mat and dried in the sun (about 4 days, weather permitting), leaving you with the dark brown, tack-like spice we all know. This freshly dried clove will be pungent, high in volatile oils and ready to use. 
Coriander seeds are technically the fruit of the plant. As with most whole spices, 
the powder is best made by lightly roasting and then grinding whole seeds in a mortar and pestle. This freshly ground coriander is far superior to the ground coriander found on supermarket shelves.
Cubeb, a hollow black spice from the pepper family, is hard to source in the West. Used 
in Indonesian curries, cubeb can be replaced with black pepper mixed with a little allspice. 
Dukkah, a North African (Egyptian) condiment, is delicious with bread dipped in extra 
virgin olive oil or as a coating for meat and fish. It is made up principally of coriander seeds, cumin seeds, nuts (usually hazelnuts), brown sesame seeds, salt and pepper, all roasted and then coarsely ground together.
Fennel seed (technically the fruit of the plant) has a pale-green tinge when dried; the 
greener the seed, the better the quality. It has a sweet anise aroma and flavour, excellent in pickled vegetable mixes, in bread and with seafood.
Fenugreek is used as a spice although it is in fact a legume (and used as one in 
Ethiopian cuisine). As many as 50 varieties exist, differing in colour from red-brown to yellowish-green. Dried fenugreek has no discernible smell, but once ground and cooked, its true character is revealed: it has a strong, acrid curry smell with a slightly bitter taste that strangely resembles maple syrup. It is an indispensable addition to curries and chutneys in India and Pakistan. Fresh fenugreek leaves are sold in bunches (the stalks are discarded, as they are too bitter to eat).
Garam masala is a ground spice mix made from a base of cumin and coriander along with 
cardamom, cinnamon, black peppercorns and Indian bay leaves. There are many variations, some containing up to 12 spices (such as nutmeg, mace, dried chilli, ground ginger and fenugreek). Garam masala is usually added towards the end of cooking a dish.
Jamaica pepper see Allspice.Kebsa is a spice mix from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf. A mix of cardamom, cinnamon, 