The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 530cumin, cloves, nutmeg, coriander seed, loomi, red chilli and black pepper, it is used in 
soups, as a dipping spice for bread and olive oil, and as a rub for meats. A very quick kebsa spice blend can be as simple as cinnamon, cumin and allspice. There is also a meal known as kebsa, a Saudi tradition of hospitality, a feast of goat, lamb, chicken, salads and fruit. 
Mace the spice has nothing to do with chemical mace, the spray used to disable an 
attacker in a dark alley. It is similar to nutmeg but recommended for use in savoury dishes. 
Mixed spice is used in biscuits, cakes and puddings in Western cuisine. It is a mix of 
allspice, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, nutmeg and a small amount of black pepper. Making your own mixed spice can be an exercise in individuality; play with the quantities or add other sweet spices such as ground coriander, cardamom or anise. 
Nigella, also known as ‘kalonji’ or ‘charnushka’ (US), are the teardrop-shaped, black 
and pungent seeds from a bush found throughout India. This aromatic, slightly bitter spice is used to give a nutty edge to curries and breads, and in Middle Eastern and Turkish cuisine. Nigella should not be confused with black sesame seeds (nigella have a more angular shape to the seeds), black onion seeds (which is a misnomer), or black cumin (although, to confuse matters, ‘black cumin’ is the literal translation of the Hindi word for kalonji). 
Nutmeg can be bought whole or powdered. The whole kernels can be grated directly onto 
or into food, but be careful not to add too much. In its natural state, the nutmeg kernel has a lacy, scarlet covering, known as ‘mace’, which, when removed and dried, turns an orange/yellow colour and has the flavour of nutmeg. The general rule is, nutmeg for sweet dishes, mace for savoury. 
Panch phora see Bengali five spice.Pepper, no matter what its colour, begins life as the unripe, green peppercorn. Black 
pepper is the most aromatic pepper, produced by picking the clusters of berries when not quite ripe, then leaving them in piles to ferment. After a few days, the individual berries are spread out and left to dry in the sun for 2 or 3 more days or until they are shrivelled and nearly black. Black pepper from India is regarded as the best, especially the Malabar and Tellicherry varieties. One of the hottest black peppers is from Lampong province in Sumatra and it, too, is highly regarded. White pepper is the most pungent of the peppers, but the least aromatic. It is produced from the fully ripened berries that are just about to turn red. After harvest, the clusters are packed in bags and soaked in water for more than a week. This softens the outer coating, or pericarp, so that it may be removed to reveal the grey centres. The peppercorns are then spread out to dry in the sun where they naturally bleach to white. Green peppercorns are harvested while still immature and cured in brine. They can be used in curry pastes (soak in cold water for 30 minutes then pound into the paste), or added whole (first rinse in cold water) to cream sauces or stews, and to pâtés, terrines and dressings, for a musky, peppery bite with far less pungency than black or white. Tasmanian pepper, also known as ‘mountain pepper’ and ‘native pepper’, is native to Australia and hard to source from outside the country. It resembles black pepper in size and appearance, but there is no substitute for this flavour. Tasmanian pepper has gained popularity through the ‘bush food’ movement in Australia. 
Pink peppercorns are not actually peppercorns but berries. They are sweet and aromatic 
and make a good (although less fragrant) alternative to juniper berries. Sold either dried or in brine, they are used in sauces, with fish or poultry, or ground to use as a final dusting for garnish. Freeze-dried pink peppercorns are often sold mixed with black and white peppercorns for people to use in clear grinders—the purpose is more for display than flavour. They should be used in moderation, as large quantities have been said to cause 