The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 531respiratory ailments or irritation of mucous membranes.
Quatre épices (literally ‘four spices’) is a favourite spice in France, North Africa 
and the Middle East, made up of white pepper, ground nutmeg, ground ginger and ground 
cloves. It is used in French charcuterie, and Middle Eastern meat dishes.
Ras el hanout is a superbly fragrant and complex Moroccan spice blend. It roughly 
translates as ‘top of the shelf’ or ‘head of the shop’, which for a spice merchant represents the best blend of spices on offer. Although consisting of up to 15 different ingredients, it is subtle, and the addition of rose petals and lavender can impart a fantastic aroma, colour and underlying flavour. Like many of the spice blends, ras el hanout can be made with varied spice combinations and quantities, although often the spices are mixed in equal portions. A basic blend might include black pepper (Tellicherry), cardamom, ginger, cinnamon, mace, turmeric, allspice, nutmeg, saffron, galangal, cayenne, coriander, cassia, cloves and nigella. Ras el hanout can be added to couscous and rice as they cook, and is also used in meat and potato tagines (casseroles), meatballs and lamb dishes. It is best to roast the ground spice mix before using. 
Sansho pepper see Sichuan pepper.Seven-flavour spice see Togarashi.Sichuan pepper is also known as ‘anise pepper’, ‘Chinese pepper’ and ‘spice pepper’. It 
has an aromatic, woody/lemony flavour with a slight anaesthetic feel on the tongue. The aroma comes from the pod and not the seeds. The seeds will have already been removed from store-bought pepper, as they have an unnecessary bitterness about them. You should also remove any fragments of stem that you find as they are tough and pointy, which could be harmful on swallowing. Sichuan pepper can be used as a condiment: first mix with salt, dry-toast in a wok until it begins to smoke, then cool and grind coarsely. Chinese sichuan pepper is the most common but you can also buy Indonesian sichuan, North Indian sichuan and Nepalese sichuan. The Japanese version is called ‘sansho’ and is used in togarashi.
Spice pepper see Sichuan pepper.Star anise is a star-shaped spice (each star has 8 points) with the distinct flavour and 
aroma of aniseed or licorice. It is collected from a small evergreen shrub in Japan yet used significantly in Chinese cuisine. Moderation is the key when using this pungent spice. It is usually added whole to a dish, but each point in the star contains a seed which can be removed and roasted separately then ground. Star anise should not be confused with anise.
Sumac is a tree, whose seed or berry is dried, ground and mixed with salt to produce 
the spice sumac. This tart, dark red spice is sprinkled over cooked rice, bread doughs, fish or lamb (before being cooked) and salads. Sumac is found in Middle Eastern grocers, and the dried seeds can also be purchased whole: crush and soak the seeds in warm water for about 20 minutes, then strain to produce a juice that is sour enough to be used instead of lemon juice. Note that some wild versions of sumac can be very poisonous. 
Togarashi or seven-flavour spice, is a popular Japanese spice mix used as a condiment 
to sprinkle over hotpots and noodle dishes, or for sukiyaki, or as a seasoning. The seven flavours are ground chilli, poppy seeds, sansho pepper, black sesame seeds, white sesame seeds, rape seeds and ground tangerine peel. The amount of chilli can be varied according to taste.
Za’atar, the Arabic word for wild thyme, is both a herb and a spice mix used in Middle 
Eastern cooking. It is sprinkled on bread before baking, soups, seafood, barbecued mutton and grilled meats. It is a blend of sumac, sesame seeds and the herb za’atar, and can be bought ready-made in Middle Eastern and Lebanese produce shops. 