56
 Dumplings for BeginnersPORK AND BOK CHOY JIAOZI
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 45 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
The quintessential steamed pork dumplings, these jiaozi have a juicy filling with bits of 
salted bok choy for a crunchy texture.
2 baby bok choy bulbs, 
roughly chopped
2 teaspoons kosher salt
12 ounces ground pork
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, minced
1 tablespoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 teaspoon cornstarch
Pinch ground white pepper
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (see page 20)
Nonstick cooking spray
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce 
(page 98) or XO Sauce 
(page 100), for serving
Mix it uP: This filling can be 
used for wontons, potstickers, 
and even shengjian bao. It’s 
the universal filling!1. Make the filling: Wilt the bok choy with the salt for 
5 to 10 minutes. Squeeze out the extra moisture.
2. T ransfer to a bowl and add the ground pork, scal-
lions, rice wine, sesame oil, cornstarch, and white 
pepper. Mix thoroughly to combine. Cover and refrig -
erate while you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). Roll each 
piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick around 
the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer.
7. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets 
with cooking spray. Arrange the dumplings in the 
steamer baskets without letting them touch.
8. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the 
water to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep 
a simmer. Steam for 8 to 9 minutes, adding more 
water, as needed.
9. Remove the baskets from the pot and serve the 
dumplings directly from the baskets with the dipping 
sauce on the side.