The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 532Sugar
Sugar comes in many forms—dried, powdered, dark sticky liquids—in different grades, and is 
mostly produced from sugar cane or the white root of sugar beets. (The by-product of sugar cane and sugar beet refining is molasses.) Screened sugars have been through a sifting method to divide the sugar into various sizes for different uses. The result is granulated sugar, such as plain or caster sugar. Different screened sugars are used for commercial products, depending on the granule size required: coarse sugar, Crystal 750, sugar, nonpareil, fine sugar and extra fine sugar. Milled sugar refers to powdered sugars such as icing sugar. Most of these contain free-flowing agents, such as starch, tri-calcium phosphate or maltodextrin. 
Need I go on about the over-consumption of refined sugars in our diets? Suffice to say 
that with diabetes an ever-increasing diagnosis in Western society, and obesity on the rise in young children, moderation is essential.
Problem solving
Lumpy sugar? Pour through a sieve, gently squash in a mortar and pestle or keep to one side 
and use in hot caramel, toffee, hot beverages or any other dish where free-flowing sugar is not required. 
TyPes of sugar
Blended sugar is cane or beet sugar with dextrose (derived from corn) added, which makes for 
a cheaper product. It is not as sweet as granulated sugar. Because dextrose is hygroscopic (attracts water from the air), using blended sugar in a recipe could alter the end result. 
Brown sugar can be light or dark, both quite moist. The flavour varies slightly according 
to the richness of the molasses content. Brown sugar can replace most other brown (especially muscovado) and even white granulated sugar, as well as coconut sugar and palm sugar. 
Caster/castor sugar is the finest of the screened sugars. Most often used in domestic 
baking and dessert/sweets, because its small granule dissolves quickly, it can be replaced with white granulated sugar that has been blended until the grains are as fine as possible.
Cinnamon sugar is, as the name suggests, sugar with cinnamon added. To make your own, 
use 7 parts caster sugar to 1 part ground cinnamon. 
Coconut sugar is made from the sap of the coconut tree. (Gathering the sap eventually 
renders the tree useless for quality coconut production.) The sugar is very dark brown, with less flavour than pure palm sugar—it is similar in taste to dark brown sugar which can be used to replace it if necessary. It is sold in a moist block.
Demerara sugar is a light brown crystal sugar. When made properly, it is only partially 
refined, which leaves the natural molasses intact, but unfortunately most demerara sugar available is made from refined white sugar with molasses added. (To find the genuine stuff, look on the packet: there should be no list of ingredients as demerara sugar is just that, not sugar and molasses.) It can be replaced with light brown sugar or raw sugar.
Date sugar is made from the sap of the date palm. It adds a delicate flavour to baked 
goods, beverages and other foods. 
Dry fondant sugar, used to make fondant, contains 10 per cent spray-dried glucose.Evaporated cane sugar juice is one for the vegans. It hasn’t gone through the final 
stages of clarification over charcoaled animal bones that some other sugars are subjected to.
Fondant sugar is slightly different to dry fondant sugar, which is used in royal icing 
for cake decorating and fondant making. It is a very fine, pure form of icing sugar (without glucose). 