The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 533Icing sugar or pure icing sugar, known in the US as ‘confectioners’ sugar’, is a milled 
sugar. Unlike many of the milled sugars, pure icing sugar contains no addititives. It can be 
replaced with a homemade icing sugar mixture: blend 1 cup granulated sugar with 1 tablespoon cornflour until powdery. It can also be called ‘powdered sugar’ and ‘10 x sugar’.
Muscovado sugar, also known as ‘Barbados sugar’, is a rich, moist, brown sugar which is 
less refined than most other brown sugars. Replace with dark brown sugar if necessary.
Palm sugar is also know as ‘jaggery’, ‘java sugar’ or ‘gula melaka’. (The latter name 
also refers to a Malaysian dessert made from tapioca or sago, coconut milk and a palm sugar syrup.) This hard block sugar is found in Asian grocers and some supermarkets. Read the ingredients as several brands are made from cane sugar and molasses, not from the sap of the sugar palm. It is available light coloured and very hard or as a dark, almost black and moister block (which may in fact be coconut sugar—check the label). Palm sugar has a flavour unto itself which other sugars will not bring to the dish.
Pearl sugar is used in the baking industry for decorative purposes. Also known as 
‘decorative sugar’ or ‘sanding sugar’, these are simply lumps of refined sugar particles.
Preserving sugar is designed for jams and preserves. It has large white crystals 
which dissolve slowly and so do not settle in the bottom of the pan, reducing the need for stirring and the risk of burning. In addition, less froth results in a clearer preserve.
Raw sugar is a semi-refined product similar to turbinado. It has a light caramel/
molasses flavour, and is also called ‘plantation sugar’ or ‘sugar in the raw’. In Canada, however, ‘raw sugar’ refers to the product imported simply for refining into other sugars and is therefore not sold to the consumer, as it still contains impurities.
Rock sugar, also known as ‘Chinese rock sugar’ or ‘rock candy’, is made from very 
pure white sugar and comes as large white crystals, either clear or yellow. Not as sweet as granulated sugar, it is used for red roasting and (the yellow variety) as a decorative sugar, as well as in cooking.
Rolled fondant, also known as ‘sugar paste’, ‘pastillage’ and ‘roll out icing’, is a 
mix of icing sugar, cornflour and gum arabic. It is used in cake decorating as it’s easy to mould, shape and colour. Once applied, it needs to dry before decorating.
Silk sugar is a new product which, as the name suggests, is as smooth as silk when 
commercially made into fondant; however, it is not readily available to the public.
Snow sugar or MR sugar is a commercially available product favoured by bakers and chefs 
who have their sweet goods on display. This moisture-resistant product tastes of sugar and looks like icing sugar, but it won’t dissolve when dusted over berries or cakes. It cannot be used in the cooking process, so is strictly aesthetic. 
Soft icing mixture is a milled sugar that is better used for frosting on a cake than in 
baking, as it contains a starch as a free-flowing agent. See also Icing sugar.
Sugar syrup, known as ‘simple syrup’ in the US, is a syrup of water and sugar, which 
has been boiled until the sugar dissolves. Used for sweetening bar drinks (cocktails) and as a base for fruit sauces it is usually made with equal parts sugar and water, but can vary depending on the sweetness required (a sweeter mix may be 2 parts sugar to 1 part water).
Turbinado sugar is a light brown crystal sugar similar to demerara. Use light brown 
sugar or raw sugar as a substitute.