The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 535Glucose syrup is more dextrin than glucose and is made from maize syrup.
Honey is as much as 60 per cent sweeter than sugar, with a higher caloric count. Honey 
should never be served to babies, as contaminated honey is the only food product that can cause infant botulism. For true vegans, honey is a no-no, as it is considered that commerical honey production exploits bees. (Bees naturally produce extra honey for the winter; beekeepers take all the honey, feeding bees a cheap, low-grade corn syrup instead, which shortens their life span 2–3 years compared to 6 years for wild bees. Some exclusive keepers rotate honey supplies, ensuring the bees have enough for their winter period, but although honey from these keepers tastes great, it has a far smaller yield, is hard to source, expensive and not commercially viable.)
Maple crystals are a wonderful product with a high price tag. Much sweeter than sugar, 
they have the umami factor: tiny crystals with an excellent maple explosion in the mouth. Finding the product outside Canada can be a little frustrating. 
Maple syrup is sweeter and better for you than sugar. Buy organic maple syrup wherever 
possible, as it doesn’t contain the mould inhibitors or formaldehyde that may taint other pure maple syrups. Maple-flavoured syrup is a very cheap imitation of the good stuff. It is a blend of corn syrup (pure sugar) with artificial flavours.
Rice syrup is only half as sweet as cane sugar, with a similar viscosity to honey. It 
is not recommended as a sugar alternative in cakes and baked goods.
Stevia is a sweetener made from the South American plant Stevia rebaudiana ‘Bertoni’. 
It is a green powder 30 times sweeter than sugar, with no calories and a sweet herby taste. It is not recognised by world health authorities, but it may be that stevia is controversial only because it poses a threat to synthetic brands and the sugar industry. You’re most likely to find it as a dietary supplement in health food shops, and stevia cookbooks are available.
Stevioside is a white powder derived from stevia, but further refined and without the 
slight herb flavour. It is 300 times sweeter than sugar so should be used sparingly. 
Sucanat is a whole cane sugar which contains the juice of pressed cane sugar with 
molasses added. Still a sugar as far as diabetics are concerned, it contains a small amount of vitamins, minerals and trace elements which help to reduce the negative effects of long-term white sugar use. Sucanat can be substituted for brown sugar, measure for measure. 
Sucrose is the sugar extracted primarily from sugar cane and sugar beet.Synthetic (toxic) sweeteners include many brands that are now household names. Use 
these products at your own discretion, and research them before believing they are good at what they do. Types of synthetic sweeteners include: neotame; aspartame (NutraSweet, Equal); sucralose, which is 600 times sweeter than sucrose (Splenda); and acesulfame-k, which is 200 times sweeter than sucrose (Sunette, Sweet n Safe, SweetOne).