The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 537Food allergies, intolerances and Food additives
A food allergy should not be mistaken for a food intolerance. A food allergy is often caused 
by the immune system responding to proteins within the food and overloading on chemicals such as histamine, which in turn brings about an allergic reaction, such as swelling, wheezing, hives, etc. On the other hand, an intolerance or a sensitivity to a food or an ingredient within food is often linked to other health problems. It has more to do with digestion and has less defined symptoms. Food allergies in adults are rarely curable, while food sensitivities may often improve or disappear over a period of time. Allergy symptoms range from localised hives and swelling to the life-threatening anaphylaxis, which causes difficulty in breathing and/or a drop in blood pressure (shock). Vomiting, diarrhoea, blocked or runny nose, an intense sense of fear, dizziness, swelling of the face and throat (extreme swelling and immediate facial disfigurement are not uncommon), difficulty in thinking and tightness in the chest are also signs to beware of. 
Allergies from food occur in around 1 in 20 children and 1 in 100 adults. In up to 80 
per cent of cases, children grow out of these; but allergies to nuts, seeds and seafood often continue into adult life and must be monitored. The most severe allergies, which can cause anaphylaxis, are to peanuts, tree nuts (such as pistachios, walnuts, almonds, pecans, brazil nuts and macadamias) and shellfish. Other common allergies are to cow’s milk, soy, eggs, fish and gluten.
Seek immediate advice from a medical practitioner if you have an adverse reaction to 
any food or drink. 
AlternAtives to A llergy-cAusing foods 
Allergy-causing foods can often be successfully replaced with alternative ingredients, but 
some alternatives will change the flavour. Milk, eggs, wheat and gluten have alternatives, for example, but it’s hard to replace nuts and seafood without changing the nature of the dish. Beware of cross-contamination when preparing food for a guest with an allergy. Even the smallest amount can trigger a nasty reaction. Food should be prepared on completely different cutting boards and benches and cooked in different pans. 
AlternAtive flours
Gluten is a substance found in grains such as wheat, oats, rye and barley. Some people 
require a gluten-free diet, most often those who are diagnosed with coeliac disease (gluten-sensitive enteropathy). See the section on flour which gives an extensive list of wheat- and gluten-free flours.
AlternAtives to products contAining gluten 
Xanthan gum (derived from the fermentation of corn sugar with a bacterium) or guar gum 
(derived from the seeds of a plant originating in India, Cyamoposis tetragonolobus) help gluten-free baked products to bind and hold their shape. For best results, use a combination of the two gums in the proportions of 2 parts xanthan to 1 part guar. Add a small quantity of water to the recipe to encourage the gums to become sticky. Add 
½–1 teaspoon of 
the combined gums and water to a single recipe of biscuits, cakes or bread. For larger quantities, you will have to experiment with the quantites of gum and different proportions of flours. 
For homemade gluten-free baking powder—mix together: 
¼ cup bicarbonate of soda and  
½ cup cream of tartar. 