The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 538For homemade gluten-free flour—in recipes, replace 1 cup plain flour with one of the 
following gluten- and wheat-free alternatives: 1 ½ cups rolled oats (try putting the rolled 
oats in the food processor to change the texture); ½ cup soy flour and ½ cup rice flour;  
½ cup soy flour, ¼ cup rice flour and ¼ cup potato flour; ½ cup soy flour and ½ cup cornflour; 
or ¼ cup soy flour, ¼ cup tapioca flour and ½ cup brown rice flour.
AlternAtives to eggs
See the Eggs section, Alternatives to eggs, for suggestions.
AlternAtives to milk
Almond milk can be easily made at home. It tastes great, has no cholesterol and can be 
substituted for cow’s milk measure for measure when baking. For homemade almond milk—blend 1 cup shelled raw almonds to a fine powder. Add 2 cups water and blend for 2 minutes. Keep the blender running while slowly adding another 2 cups water. Strain slowly through muslin or cheesecloth. Almond milk will keep in the fridge for 4–5 days. There will be close to  1 cup almond fibre leftover. You can keep this in the fridge and use it as a body moisturiser in the shower.
Fruit milks are usually made from very ripe bananas, rockmelon or honeydew melon. 
For banana milk, simply blend 1 very ripe banana with 1 cup of water. For the rockmelon and honeydew, scoop the flesh straight into the blender and puree to form a creamy, milky texture.
Horchata and Mexican horchata are both used as milk substitutes.Goat’s milk contains lactose (as does the milk of all mammals) but some people find it 
more digestible than cow’s milk, so it is sometimes recommended as an alternative.
Lactose-reduced milk is exactly that. Lactose has been reduced by 40–100 per cent. 
People with lactose intolerance can look into these alternatives, but for those allergic to milk proteins, move on. 
Non-dairy creamers and whiteners are common in the US but rare elsewhere. These dairy 
alternatives, usually reserved for beverages, contain corn syrup solids and palm oil, and are free of lactose, cholesterol, allergens and milk protein. Some contain coconut oil, canola oil or other such ingredients. 
Oat milk is a good replacement for drinking and in cooking, with excellent health 
benefits, although it’s not suitable for people who are gluten-intolerant.
Rice milk can be used on cereal, for drinking, in baking and as a thickening agent.Soy milk is an alternative although some people are allergic to Soy.
AlternAtives to seA food
For those allergic to seafood, there is no substitute. Allergic reactions to seafood (which includes fish and shellfish, the most common being prawns or shrimp) are the third most common food allergy after eggs and milk. The allergy is usually life-long, and if anything, the reactions can become more aggressive after each exposure to seafood. In severe cases, even the vapours from cooked seafood can trigger a reaction.
AlternAtives to meAt
Ardent meat lovers would argue that there are no substitutes, but that does not help 
vegetarians, vegans or anyone changing the way they eat. Many techniques and accompaniments that work with meat can successfully be applied to non-meat products.