The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 539Mushrooms have long been considered meat for vegetarians. Cut into large chunks or kept 
whole, mushrooms bulk out a curry, stir-fry or casserole perfectly, adding a meaty texture 
that other vegetables fail to deliver.
Pureed nuts and seeds are a good source of protein in place of meat.Seitan is made from gluten, is high in protein and has a meat-like texture when cooked. 
Seitan absorbs flavours well and can be sliced and diced, then used in stir-fries, casseroles or cooked in a sauce.
Tempeh is a fermented soy bean product that is an excellent high-protein meat 
substitute. Tempeh is one of the most versatile alternatives to meat and it takes to marinating, stir-frying, grilling, braising, sautéing and baking.
Tofu, another soy product, can be purchased ready-made (burgers, steaks, hot dogs) as 
well as in blocks.
TVP (Textured Vegetable Protein) is dried, minced soy protein used as a substitute for 
minced meat. TVP has no discernible flavour of its own so relies on added ingredients for a boost. Any recipe made from minced beef can be recreated using TVP.
Food additives
This list of additives is designed as a quick reference to the main food additives ever present in packaged foods. If you still have concerns, you can have a checklist sent to you from your country’s governing food authority that deals with additives, genetically modified foods, labelling, irradiation, food standards and safety.
Some additives are not labelled, and this is legal when an ingredient within a 
processed food itself contains additives. Confusing? Yes, but the simple answer is to contact the manufacturer for this ingredient information. Otherwise send for a complete ‘code breaker’ from your national food authority.
Food additives are an important component in the preservation of our food, ensuring 
longevity and ease of use. Additives are also used to improve the taste and appearance of the food. However, with the good comes the bad, and some additives do have an adverse effect on some people. Most intolerances are blamed on the additive, when in fact the intolerance may be attributable to a naturally occuring food component such as amines, glutamates and salicylates. In either case, people with allergies want to know what it is they are consuming, others simply don’t like the amount of added extras thrown into a tasty snack.
The varied functions of food additives are: colouring agents, flavouring, colour 
retention agents, preservatives, flavour enhancers, mineral salts, food acids, humectants, emulsifiers, food acids, anti-caking agents, stabilisers, thickeners, vegetable gums, propellants, glazing agents, and flour treatment agents.
There are so many food additives out there, with equally confusing names, that code 
numbers have been added to simplify their identification. This list (sourced from the Australian and New Zealand Food Authority) is an international list, and the codes are universal, but keep in mind it is not the most extensive list, and each country may allow and use additives that are not used and accepted in other countries. A letter in front of the numbers simply denotes a country; for example ‘E100’ is still turmeric, but found on packages in the UK.
The following list shows code number, prescribed name and use. Additive numbers are in 
bold-face type, followed by the name in Roman, then the use in brackets.