The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 546EssEntial kitchEn EquipmEnt
Knives
Knives are among the most essential pieces of kitchen equipment, and a basic selection is 
vital to setting up your kitchen. The three styles mentioned below are a great starting point, but the more experienced you become, the more styles you may feel you need. For example, the cook’s knife is fine for slicing roasts, filleting fish and portioning steaks, although knives specific to each of these jobs are available. What you spend on these knives is personal, depending on budget, but remember, the most expensive knives may not necessarily be the best for your hand size and wrist strength or be the most pleasing aesthetically. 
Cook’s knife—is a large blade used for daily cutting and slicing of most ingredients. 
Available in 8-in. (20-cm), 10-in. (25-cm) and 12-in. (30-cm) blades. Only one is needed, not one of each size.
Serrated knife—is a must for cutting bread, cakes, tomatoes and passionfruit.Paring knife—is a small utility knife, and a must for all the small, fiddly jobs where 
the size of a cook’s knife is excessive. Used for cutting fruit and vegetables, scoring tomato skin or removing stems and seeds, etc.
Measuring equipM ent
A selection of measuring cups, spoons, jugs and weight scales is important, especially if 
you love baking and dessert making. I suggest one set of graduated measuring cups (metal or plastic), one set of graduated measuring spoons and at least one measuring jug of 1- to 2-litre capacity. Electric or not, measuring scales are a very handy addition to the kitchen. 
stovetop
Saucepans—are a stovetop’s best friend. There are many different shapes and sizes, and 
buying in sets is not necessarily the best option. Keeping your budget in mind, and remembering that if you buy quality the first time, you’ll never have to buy them again, look for a heavy-based style of saucepan of 1–4-litre capacity with a tight-fitting lid and an ovenproof handle. Then decide how many you think you may need. Two might get you started, and then add more over time. Note: keep in mind that induction cooktops are the way of the future and if you are looking to upgrade your kitchen soon, then it could be wise to invest in induction cookware (which works equally as well on a gas hob).
Sauté pans—also known as ‘skillets’, these can have a nonstick coating and be made 
from cast iron, stainless steel or aluminium. Professionals lean towards cast iron, especially for grilling steaks and small roasts, as well as for doing a perfect ‘tarte Tatin’. However, such is the technology of nonstick pans that even professional cooks consider these for their kitchens. Ranging in size from 6 in. (15 cm) to massive diameters, if a large sauté pan is asked for, they will be talking of a 12-in. (30-cm) pan. Always look for pans with an ovenproof handle; especially good if meat has been seared and needs a few minutes in the oven. Two to three pans of varying sizes are a good start.
Wok—it is said that up to 70 per cent of kitchens in Australia now have a wok. Stir-
frying is extremely popular because of the time it takes to cook a meal. Flat bottomed woks are ideal if you have an electric or induction cooktop; round-bottomed woks are better suited to a gas cooktop. Like sauté pans, woks now come in all types of metal and coating; the cheap carbon steel wok from Asian supermarkets is still the most popular. 