The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 547Stock pot—it may seem odd to list this as a basic piece of equipment for the kitchen, 
and to some point that’s true; this is an optional addition. However, consider this—if you 
have people over for dinner and you plan on serving soup, stew, bolognaise sauce or the like, a big pot would be needed. The fact that it’s called a stock pot and you don’t plan on making stock is irrelevant. Also, this is a brilliant pot for cooking pasta in, as well as using as a deep-fryer. 
Ovens and Ovenware
Ovens—accurate oven temperatures are important, especially for baking. Unfortunately, the 
thermostat is often the first thing that breaks in an oven. Ten degrees out and that delicate baked custard could resemble omelette when the timer goes off. The best solution is to get to know your oven, or invest in an oven thermometer. The more expensive solution is to call in a specialist, to check and/or replace your thermostat.
Ovens—conventional ovens have a gas burner or electric element(s) heating from the 
bottom. As the heat rises, it creates different temperature areas or zones within the oven. The hottest area is at the top, the centre is moderate, while the coolest part is at the bottom of the oven. This can limit the amount of food that can be cooked at the one time or cause problems with baked goods if the oven is overloaded. 
Gas ovens can cook at a lower temperature than electric, while electric ovens can 
produce a higher heat.
Self-cleaning ovens are certainly recommended for those cooks who bake often. These 
ovens cost more but merely need wiping out after the cleaning phase. Basically the oven is set to clean, the temperature rises to about 500ºC, vaporising any built-up matter and turning it into dust. The oven then cools and simply needs to be wiped out to leave a sparkling clean oven ready to use—brilliant.
The following types of oven, less common in the domestic market, are sometimes referred 
to as ‘zoned ovens’. 
Fan-assisted ovens (available in gas and electric) operate like conventional ovens but 
with the addition of a fan at the rear. As the heat rises from the bottom, it’s circulated by the fan to create a more even temperature. The fan can be turned on or off so, for example, a pie can be baked using the fan-assisted function, and then its top browned using the oven conventionally. 
Fan-forced or convection ovens have an in-built fan that circulates heated air around 
the oven. This results in an even temperature throughout the entire oven, allowing all shelves to be used simultaneously. Fan-forced ovens heat more quickly, can cook food at lower temperatures, and use up to 35 per cent less energy than conventional ovens. They are available in electric only.
Combination cookers combine convection and microwave cooking in the same oven. The 
advantage of these ovens is that food can be browned or crisped on the outside using convection cooking, while the microwave energy reduces the actual cooking time. 
See also Oven temperatures conversion chart.Roasting pan—you need at least one large roasting pan for, well, roasts.Casserole/lasagne dish—a deep rectangular or square ovenproof dish (glass, ceramic or 
cast iron).
Gratin dish—can be a ceramic multi-functional dish for dishes like potato gratin, 
nachos, quiche or pasta bake. The right gratin dish could double up as a pie dish as well.