The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 548Pizza tray—at least one, even two, of these is handy, as more and more, people tend 
to find making their own pizza enjoyable. Dark, matte-finished pizza trays are best for the 
domestic oven, as they absorb the heat better and give a better base colour. Remember, domestic ovens don’t produce the base heat of a wood-fired oven.
Cake tins—at least one to begin with, maybe a round one, possibly springform. The more 
cakes you plan to make, the more you’ll need to add to your collection—choose from round, square, rectangular, solid and springform as well as those made from silicon. A loaf tin is not an essential start-up piece of bake ware, but could be considered the next thing you buy.
Baking trays—are very handy for every thing from reheating bread to baking pavlova 
(baking trays are known as ‘baking sheets’ in the USA). I recommend black, nonstick ones with a very small (5-mm) lip around the edge. I will also mention slice trays here as well; one of those rectangular 23-cm x 18-cm x 2.5-cm one-sided trays is fantastic for baking a variety of sweet and savoury dishes. 
Utensils
When buying utensils, try not to hoard, only buy what you think you will need, then add, 
only if you think you will use the item. Too many gadgets crowd your drawers only to end up at a garage sale 5 years later.
the final list
Knives—20-cm cook’s knife x 
1, serrated knife x 1, paring knife x 1
Saucepans—with ovenproof 
handles and tight-fitting lids x 2 or 3
Saute pans—with ovenproof 
handles x 1 or 2
Wok x 1 (depends on style of 
cooktop—see Wok)
Stock pot—5–10-litre 
(optional but handy if cooking loads of soup and pasta) x 1
Measuring—set of measuring 
cups x 1, set of measuring spoons x 1,  1–2-litre measuring jug x 1
Scales x 1 (weight measures 
up to 5 kg in 10–20-g increments)
Roasting tray x 1Casserole/lasagne dish x 1Gratin dish x 1 (ceramic)Pizza tray x 1 (large)Muffin tray x 1 (6- or 
12-muffin capacity)
Cake tin x 1 (23-cm 
springform
Cake rack x 1Wooden spoons x 2Metal spoon x 1 (for 
serving)
Metal slotted spoon x 1Ladle x 1Vegetable peeler x 1Can opener x 1Sieve x 1Colander x 1Lettuce spinner x 1Mixing bowls x 3 (stainless 
steel)
Whisk x 1Grater x 1Pastry brush x 1Tongs x 2 (1 with long 
handles)
Electric mixer x 1