The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 551Bard is a technique similar to larding, designed to add fat to an otherwise lean cut 
of meat. Fat (bacon rashers or pork fat) is draped, wrapped or tied around a piece of meat. 
Poultry and terrines are often barded as a means of self-basting; a terrine mould is lined with bacon, filled and then cooked in a bain marie in the oven. Game birds like pheasant and quail do well covered with fat in this way; to brown the skin, the fat should be removed a few minutes before the bird is taken from the oven. A simple meat loaf can also benefit from being wrapped in bacon, keeping the contents moist and tasty.
Blanch is to plunge food into boiling or simmering water for a very short period of 
time, so it is only partly cooked. The food is then drained and refreshed in iced water. Blanching enhances the natural properties of the food and is sometimes done in preparation for further cooking. The time it takes to blanch food depends on the size and type of food. 
Blind baking refers to the technique of baking unfilled flans or pie cases. Tarts or 
flans that are to be filled require the raw pastry to be lined with baking paper and weighed down with dried beans, rice or specific ceramic pie weights before being baked. This process ensures the pastry doesn’t become curved (convex) due to a build-up of steam between the pastry and the base of the tin. Once cooked, the weights are removed and the pastry returned to the oven briefly to dry out. 
Boil is to cook food in boiling liquid (at a temperature no less than 100°C). For a 
rolling boil, the surface of the liquid must continuously rise and break.
Braise is a method of cooking meat in liquid. The term braising is usually reserved for 
larger cuts of meat, while stewing is used for smaller cuts of meat. As a general rule, add enough liquid to reach halfway up the item being braised. Although a recipe may specify the cooking time, my advice is to start checking the meat with an hour to go and possibly every 15 minutes after that, so as not to overcook it. Braised vegetables take 45 minutes, never longer. See also Meat, How to cook, Braising.
Broast is not a cooking technique but a trademarked application from the US-based 
Broaster Company, available only to the food service industry (hence the description ‘broasted’ will only ever be seen on a restaurant menu). It is a system that pressure-cooks chicken while frying it and includes a marinating process. This method locks in the juices while locking out the oil.
Broil is a US term meaning to expose food to a high heat, either on a hotplate or under 
an oven broiler or grill. An oven broiler is the toaster section in an oven with the heat source directly above but not touching the food. In the restaurant industry these overhead broilers are called ‘salamanders’. 
Candy is a US term that refers to cooking foods in sugar for preservation and flavour. 
It can also simply mean to coat in sugar. 
Caramelise is to cook sugar or the natural sugars within food to a light brown or 
caramel colour. White sugar caramelises at 160°C. 
Casserole can mean an ovenproof dish or container with a lid. More importantly it 
refers to a meal cooked inside this container. Commonly, cuts of meat with tough connective tissue are cooked slowly with vegetables and liquid until the connective tissue breaks down and becomes soft and gelatinous.
Chargrill is short for ‘charcoal grill’ and means to cook over the high heat produced 
by burning coals; also known as ‘char-broil’ in the US. The smoky characteristics that define chargrilling are as prominent as the grill lines left on the food being cooked. A ribbed grill plate leaves the same markings as a chargrill but does not add the flavour. Both methods are considered a healthy way to cook—as the fats drain away, basting the meat as they drain to leave it succulent. 