The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 552Coddle is to cook eggs gently in water at just below boiling point or by covering them 
with boiling water long enough for the whites to barely set. The term can also apply to 
cooking fruit.
Confit is to cook food in its own fat or juices, then preserve it in the very same fat 
or liquid. (Although you can make confit of garlic, lemon or other fruits by cooking the food slowly in oils, fruit juices and/or with salt.) Confit of duck, goose and pork is a specialty of the region of Gascony in France where the meat is first rubbed with salt—to extract juices and almost cure the meat—before it is slowly cooked then sealed and preserved in its own fat. 
Cure is a method of preserving food. The most common method is salt-curing where salt 
is added to meat which is then left to stand for a period of time to draw off the water content. What remains is a semi-dried salty tasting piece of meat. Salted beef and corned beef are examples of cured meat. Meat is dry-cured when the salt mix is applied to the meat, which is refrigerated, then washed before being cooked. Hams and bacon are examples of dry-cured meat. Sugar-curing is when sugar is added to the salt mix to sweeten the food.
Deep-fry is to cook in large quantities of fat, usually oil. The principle behind deep-
frying is that the high temperature of the oil immediately seals the food so it cooks crisp on the outside without getting oily inside. Fortunately, the days when deep-frying meant slapping food into a hot smoking vat of scalding animal fat are long gone. Successful deep-frying requires careful monitoring of temperatures, choice of oil, straining or disposal of oils, and cleaning of equipment. The temperature at which to deep-fry food depends on size and quantity. As a general rule, 180°–195°C will do. Keep in mind that the oil temperature drops, in some cases significantly, when food is added. Don’t overcrowd the pan as the temperature will drop too quickly and the food won’t be sealed, becoming soggy and oily instead of crisp. There is no single ‘best’ oil for deep-frying, but oils such as cottonseed, vegetable, soy, corn, safflower, peanut and canola are often recommended because they have a higher smoking point. Oil smokes at the point when it begins to decompose and create the nasty-smelling compound acreolein. Lard or animal fat is no longer considered appropriate for deep-frying because of the high fat content and low smoking point. 
Deglaze means not getting out another pan to make the sauce. Remove the food (usually 
meat) from the pan and set to one side to rest, covered with foil. Place the pan back on the heat and add wine, flavoured vinegar, stock, cream or even water, then stir to lift any cooked-on juices that have browned in the base of the pan.
Double boil is a cooking method that avoids the direct fierceness of naked heat. 
This is a controlled way to melt or thicken food like chocolate, lemon curd, sabayon and hollandaise, to name a few. Bring water to the boil in a saucepan then place a heatproof bowl containing the ingredients over the pan of water. Usually the heat source is turned to very low or removed altogether after the water has boiled, allowing the residual heat to do the job. Patience is the key to success when double boiling.
Double boilers can be purchased as just that—a saucepan with a curved insert (with 
a handle). But a regular saucepan and a heatproof bowl larger than the saucepan will work equally as well.
Glaze refers to any stock that has been reduced to a gelatinous consistency. This 
sticky reduction can only be made from fresh stock; if you try to make it from commercial stock, you’d be left with a small blob of dark salt. Glaze is used to strengthen the flavour of or thicken sauces, as a coating for meats or terrines, and as the base for a sauce which then has cream or butter added. Commercial veal glaze may be found in specialty food shops, delis or food halls (be prepared to pay premium prices). Glaze may also refer to brushing 