The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 553products to be baked with milk, egg whites or egg wash (milk and eggs) to give them a glossy 
surface.
Grill is to cook with the heat source either beneath or above the food. If the heat 
source is beneath, food is cooked on a grill plate or griddle, either flat or ribbed. If the heat source is above the food, the method refers to using an oven grill or broiler. Here, the element does not make contact with the food. Grilling is often referred to as broiling in the US. See also Chargrill.
Indirect grilling is a term used mainly to refer to the preparation of ribs. Like par-
baking, it sets the ribs up for their final grill session. The heat comes from the outside or one side of the charcoal grill while the middle section or larger portion of the grill remains off. The meat is placed in the centre of the grill or to the off side, with a bowl of water underneath to catch the drips and to produce steam to help the meat slowly tenderise. The hot coals can be sprinkled with wood chips for a smoky flavour. The meat is covered and cooked until tender. It is then ready for saucing and grilling.
Jug is an old English cooking technique. Jugged hare involves the hare being placed in 
a tall jug, that is set in a pan of water, and cooked slowly over a long period. The blood is drained before cooking and reserved and (with its natural clotting abilities) used to the thicken the sauce. Jugged kippers is a favoured method to avoid the house smelling of fish. The kippers’ heads and tails are removed, they are placed in a jug, head-end first, and boiling water is poured on top. They are then covered with a lid or plate and left to stand for 4–5 minutes.
Liaison is a mixture of cream and egg yolks used to thicken white sauces and soups. It 
must be heated very gently. (As the word derives from the French, meaning ‘to bind’, it can also be used to refer to other thickening processes.)
Microwave can refer to the implement or the cooking technique. The first microwave oven 
was built in 1947. It was nearly 6 feet tall, weighed more than 750 pounds and cost US$5000 to buy. Now these compact metal boxes are standard-issue equipment in most households in developed countries. Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation that is very similar to sunlight and radio waves. Microwave energy occurs when an electric current flows through a conductor. Thanks to Dr Percy Lebaron Spencer, whose chocolate bar melted in his pocket while he was toying with a new experiment which had nothing to do with food, we now have the microwave oven. There are many and varied books on cooking in a microwave, but many avid cooks like me see it simply as the best tool for reheating or melting food rather than a way to cook dishes from scratch. No doubt microwave cooks beg to differ.
Microwave cooking
Metal and foil
Metal objects should not be used in a microwave as the metal reflects the microwave energy. Any plates or dishes that have silver or gold trim will cause an electrical discharge in the microwave, potentially harming the oven. Some butters are wrapped in a silver packet lined with paper, and these will also spark and ignite. Always place food in appropriate microwave-safe dishes.
Be wary of plastic ties on bags when reheating as the tie may have a wire strip running 
through the centre which can ignite.
Aluminium foil can be used in the microwave if you follow some simple rules. Use only 
in small amounts to prevent excess heat from penetrating some of the more delicate areas of 