The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 554chicken wings, ends of fish and cakes. It is also important to ensure the foil doesn’t touch 
the sides of the oven.
Plastic, ceramic and china dishes, and plastic wrap
Not all dishes are microwave-safe—if unsure, test the dish by sitting a microwave-safe glass filled with water next to the dish to be tested and microwave on high for 1 minute. If the testing dish is warm and the water in the glass is still cool, then the dish is not microwave-proof. The dish being tested should remain cold for suitable microwave cooking.
Plastic wrap is microwave safe. However, extended periods of time can distort the 
shape of the wrap and form a dangerous airtight seal over the food. Carefully lift the wrap away from you to avoid a steam burn. The use of a pair of tongs is recommended or prick the plastic wrap with a fork to release the pressure, allowing the steam to escape before unwrapping.
Cleaning and odours
A microwave should be cleaned immediately after use, especially when there is spillage or food has exploded. If there are some lingering stains and odours from cooking, then try placing 500 ml water and the juice of 1 lemon or 1 tablespoon vanilla essence in a 1-litre microwave-safe bowl or jug and heat for 7–8 minutes on high. Wipe out the condensation and any stains with it. The microwave should smell fresh and clean.
Reheating
Impatience is the biggest reason for food not being reheated properly (hot on the outside and cold in the middle). It seems that society has become so time-poor that even the speed of a microwave is not fast enough. For a more even reheating of food, lower the power on the microwave oven to medium, cover with plastic wrap, poke 1 or 2 holes in the plastic and heat for longer than normal. Once reheated, let the food stand for 30 seconds before removing the plastic wrap to avoid a steam burn.
Tips
* To soften butter, place in a microwave-safe container and heat for 30 seconds on medium-
low (30 per cent). Cream cheese is softened also at medium-low (30 per cent) for 1 minute 
(remember to remove its foil casing).
* Piercing some foods that have a skin is vital to prevent a steam build-up and an ultimate 
explosion in the oven. Potatoes, tomatoes, sausages, chicken skin and eggs (if being poached) are the main ingredients that need a few prods from a skewer.
* Melting chocolate is done at medium (50 per cent) power. Chocolate is deceptive when 
melted as it holds its shape. To look at it, you may think it needs more time when in fact it may have already melted. As a guide, for every 100 g chocolate, heat for 2 minutes.
* Heat plates for a dinner party by stacking 4 plates with a damp piece of paper towel 
between each plate and heating on high for 2–3 minutes. 
* Damp facial cloths like those offered in Chinese restaurants are great for your next 
dinner party, especially if food that requires the guests to use their fingers is offered. To do this, wet the cloths, fold in half and roll up, place on a plate and heat for 5 minutes on high. Remember to warn the guests that the cloths will be hot and it is best to offer them the cloth by unravelling it with a pair of tongs and handing it to them so it loses some heat.