The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 555Pan-broil is to cook in a nonstick or ribbed pan on the stovetop with little or preferably 
no oil and no lid. Any fats that may build up during cooking are drained as the food cooks. The idea is for the meat or vegetable to cook quickly over high heat, so food to be pan-broiled is cut thinner or smaller than usual to help it cook quickly. 
Pan-fry is also known as ‘saute’ and means to cook in oil or fat in a pan on the 
stovetop with no lid. 
Pan-sear refers to searing or browning meat (often steak, chicken or fish) in a pan 
before finishing in the oven. 
Par-bake refers to breads and occasionally biscuits that have been proven, then partly 
baked (to hold the shape) and frozen so the home cook can finish the baking. Different levels of par-baked bread are available. Some are frozen immediately after the proving stage, allowing the home or commercial cook to do all the baking. Others are 90 per cent baked and sold at room temperature so that they only require 5 minutes of final baking time at home. Par-baking is also used in reference to spare ribs that are partly cooked before being finished on the grill. 
Parboil see Blanch.Pasteurise is a heat treatment used in some countries to kill harmful bacteria in 
dairy products and some alcoholic drinks (beer, wine, cider). It extends the life of milk, purportedly without affecting its taste and nutrient value. Purists and admirers of raw milk cheese argue that, although this process may kill bad bacteria, it also kills good bacteria and changes the molecular make-up and therefore the taste of the milk and what is made from it. (I should know, I lived on a farm, and on winter mornings would squirt warm cow’s milk directly into my mouth. As for bacteria, it’s hard to say if any of us became sick after I defrosted my hands in the bucket of very warm milk before I brought the pail back to the house.) 
Poach is the delicate process of cooking food in a liquid set below simmering point 
(approximately 75–80°C). The liquid (water, stock, sugar syrup, alcohol) should never come to the boil. The idea is to preserve the natural shape of the food and retain a delicate flavour. The foods most commonly poached are eggs, fish, meat, poultry and fruit. 
Poêlé is a method of slow-cooking meat or vegetables in butter in a covered pan in 
the oven at a temperature hot enough to braise the food, yet not so hot as to colour the butter solids. Sometimes wrongly referred to as ‘butter roasting’, ‘pot roasting’ or ‘white braising’.
Pot roasting is a similar method to braising, only it is used for larger joints or cuts 
of meat. The meat (e.g. beef topside, oyster blade or fresh silverside in a 1.5–2-kg piece) is cooked in a deep, covered pot with very little or no liquid. The meat is first seared or browned in a little butter or oil, then placed on a bed of browned root vegetables, or bones and vegetables. The pot is tightly covered and the meat cooked gently. A pot roast may be cooked in a pot, a pressure cooker or in the oven. The small amount of liquid and the vegetables together produce sufficient steam to make this moist heat method ideal for the medium-tender roasting cuts. Resist adding too much liquid or it will become a stew.
Red cooking is associated with Chinese cooking, a method where meat (often pork, but 
also beef and chicken) is braised in a soy sauce-based liquid to tenderise and colour it a dark reddish-brown. Other ingredients include ginger, onion, sweet rice wine, Chinese five-spice and powder sugar. A cheap form of red cooking might simply mean rubbing the meat with sugar, salt and red food colouring, then slow roasting to produce a piece of meat that looks very red on the outside but normal on the inside. 
Reduce is to cook a liquid down to a fraction of its original volume in order to 