The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 556enhance and concentrate its flavour or to thicken it. Don’t add salt before reducing as the 
salty flavour will be concentrated too. Creams are thickened by reduction; a stock can be reduced by many times its volume to produce a glaze. 
Refresh, although not technically a cooking method, is often done after blanching or 
parboiling. Food is removed from the water, then placed in iced water to halt the cooking process and lock in the colour. It is also known as ‘shock’. 
Render is to reduce the fat content of meat. This can be done in a pan, in the oven, in 
water or on the grill, as long as heat is used to remove the fat. Rendering is best achieved at a lower temperature.
Roast is to cook meat or vegetables in the dry heat of the oven; see also Bake.Sauté see Pan-fry.Scald is to heat a liquid (often milk) to a point just before boiling. If you boil 
milk, you will burn the proteins and the result will be scorched milk. Milk used to be scalded to kill bacteria, but we now have pasteurisation to do that job. These days, a recipe may suggest scalding milk to make working with other ingredients easier (for instance, to help added ingredients to dissolve or melt) or simply out of habit. 
Sear is to seal the surface of meat or fish with a high heat in a pan or on a grill, 
with or without oil, either as a style of cooking (for example, for fresh tuna) or as a first step before further cooking. The idea is that it locks in the juices, although the validity of this theory is now being tested and questioned.
Shallow-fry is similar to pan-frying, only using a little more fat. The excess fat is 
then poured from the pan after the cooking. 
Simmer is to cook in a liquid just below boiling point, at a temperature of 85°C, 
when small rolling bubbles start to break the surface. The great recipe tautology is the instruction to ‘gently simmer’ because ‘simmering hard’ would mean to boil. 
Smoking means flavouring of meat and vegetables via a hot- or cold-smoking method. 
Smoking is also what many professional cooks do as a coping mechanism when faced with the pressure of service: the smoke is an aromatic blend of nicotine and tobacco, but sometimes other herbs and spices are thrown into the mix. 
Smother is to add a small amount of liquid to a food that has been sautéed. The pan is 
then covered with a lid, the temperature reduced and the food cooked over a low heat until done. 
Steaming is considered the healthiest way to cook vegetables, as there is no agitation 
in boiling water and the steam doesn’t dilute or remove in great amounts the nutrients within the food. Meat, fish, rice and fruit can also be steamed. A liquid, usually water, at boiling point (105°C) or higher produces steam which is caught in a lidded receptacle (make sure the food stays out of the water or it will be boiled rather than steamed). Steam burns can be nasty, so be careful when lifting the lid on the steamer, open it away from the face or arms to allow the severest heat to escape before removing the lid entirely. 
Stewing is a slow wet-cooking method where food and liquid are cooked in a pot or 
pan and allowed to simmer for long enough to be completely tender. Although very similar in technique to braising, meat to be stewed is cut smaller, usually diced. Fruits and vegetables can also be stewed but pay close attention to the time required for cooking, as fruit will only take a fraction of the time it takes to stew meat.
Stir-fry commonly refers to wok-cooking, although frying in a very hot pan for a very 
short time can also be referred to as stir-frying. The key to stir-frying is the ‘stir’—the food is kept moving at all times in a very hot pan. 