59 Steamed DumplingsPANEER MOMO JHOL IN SPICY TOMATO SOUP
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 15 minutes
Popular in Nepal, jhol momos are traditionally made with meat fillings and served with a 
tomato-based chutney or soup.
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
1 medium onion, 
grated, divided
4 garlic cloves, minced
1-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced, divided
Pinch kosher salt
1 tablespoon curry powder
3 teaspoons Chinese 
five-spice powder, divided
3 cups vegetable stock
1 (15-ounce) can fire-roasted 
crushed tomatoes
1 (10-ounce) package 
frozen spinach, defrosted, 
squeezed, and chopped
11/2 cups grated paneer 
or queso fresco (about 
6 ounces)
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
Nonstick cooking spray
Make it easier: Save some 
time by using store-bought 
wonton wrappers.1. Make the soup: In a large saucepan over 
medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add half the 
onion, the garlic, and half the ginger. Sauté for 
2 minutes, or until the onion is soft and translucent. 
Season with salt, curry powder, and 2 teaspoons of 
five-spice powder.
2. In a blender, combine the cooked vegetables, veg -
etable stock, and tomatoes. Blend until smooth. 
T ransfer the mixture to the saucepan and simmer 
for 20 minutes. Keep warm while you prepare 
the dumplings.
3. Make the filling: In a medium bowl, combine the 
spinach, paneer, remaining onion, remaining ginger, 
and the remaining 1 teaspoon of five-spice powder 
and stir until combined.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). Roll each 
piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick around 
the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
6. Fold the dumplings using the Soup Dumpling Fold 
(see page 30).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer. 
 VEGETARIAN
continues ⊲