GLOSSARY 
Definitions given are usually specific wine-re­
lated meanings. General dictionaries should 
be consulted as well. 
Acetification: The oxidative conversion of 
wine to vinegar, ethanol to acetic acid. An 
aerobic fermentation by Acetobacter. 
Acidity: Titrable or titratable acidity is that 
determined by quantitative titration with al­
kali. Usually it is expressed in grams of 
tartaric acid per liter in wines. Older French 
literature used giL as H2S0 4 and % tar­
taric or g/lOOmL has been common. Total 
acidity has been used as the same value to 
include fixed and volatile acidity. This can 
be misleading in that a portion of the tar­
taric acid (and others) is present as neutral­
ized anions and therefore not directly titra­
ble. Volatile acidity, as acetic acid, is very 
low in wines unless activity of vinegar bacte­
ria has been appreciable. (See al50 pH.) 
Aging: The general time-related improve­
ment of wines specifically after bottling, but 
sometimes applied to the whole period of 
wine storage after fermentation. (See also 
Maturation.) 
Alternative products: Products that, when 
produced, remove an equivalent portion of 
wine, e.g., vinegar or juice concentrate. 
Amelioration: A specific meaning in wine­
making applies especially to must better­
ment, particularly from fruits other than 
wine grapes. It involves lowering of exces­
sive acid, usually by dilution with water, and increasing the sugar content so that palat­
able and stable wines result. (See also Chap­
talization.) 
American Society for Enology and Viticulture 
(ASEV): Headquartered in Davis, Califor­
nia, this organization is more international 
than the name implies having sizable groups 
of members in Japan and elsewhere. In ad­
dition to activities including an annual 
meeting, they publish the American Journal 
of Enology and Viticulture (AJEV), undoubt­
edly the most important reviewed scientific 
and technical journal of the field in English 
and arguably in the world regardless oflan­
guage. 
Aroma: The odors in wines_related to the 
grape from which they were made as distin­
guished from process and aging odors. (See 
also Bouquet.> 
Azeotrope: A combination of two or more 
substances that boil at a constant and usu­
ally lower temperature than the compo­
nents. Ethanol and water form an azeotrope 
which, depending on atmospheric pressure, 
boils at 25.6°C rather than 26.8°C for pure 
ethanol. The azeotrope is 95.5% by weight 
ethanol ( 4.5% water) and purer ethanol 
cannot be made by simple distillation. 
Bacteriophage: A virus that affects bacteria. 
Barrel: Sometimes used too generally, a bar­
rel is an oaken liquid container with a dou­
ble-arched truncated ellipsoid shape made 
liquid tight by appropriate taper of side units 
575 