576 Glossary 
(staves) and ends (heads) wedged together 
by driven metal hoops. The usual sizes for 
wine, regardless of region, have been in the 
range of 190 to 230 L, more or less. Histori­
cally, other sizes had special names (firkin, 
keg, hogshead, tun, etc.) and other shapes 
also (oval, upright, etc.). The use of the 
equivalent French term bamque is an affec­
tation. Barrels for other commodities had 
other standard sizes: beer, 31 gallons and 
bourbon whiskey, 50 gallons, for example. 
BATF (Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Fireanns): The U.S. federal agency which 
has been responsible for regulating and 
controlling all aspects of production, label­
ing, and marketing of wine and other alco­
holic beverages. A part of the Treasury De­
partment. 
Body: The mouth-filling characteristic of 
wines related to viscosity ranging from thin 
and watery to full and high-bodied. 
Bordeaux mixture: A fungicidal spray pre­
pared from copper sulfate and calcium hy­
droxide (slaked lime) in water. 
Bottle: A standard wine bottle contains 750 
mL of wine. Formerly, U.S. wine bottles 
were called fifths because they held 1/5 gal. 
or 757 mL. 
Bottle aging: Storage of wine in bottle or 
similar essentially anaerobic container and 
the effects (usually desirable) eventually 
produced. 
Bouquet: The odors in wines resulting from 
processing and aging as distinguished from 
the raw material's odors, e.g., fermentation 
or bottle bouquets. (See also Aroma.) 
Brandy: A high-content alcoholic beverage 
product or component distilled from grape 
WIne. 
Brix: Solution property equivalent to that of 
reference aqueous solutions of sucrose in 
grams per 100 grams of solution at 20°C. 
Usually measured by hydrometry (density) 
or in juices by refractometry. Balling first 
prepared tables, but Brix improved them 
and the term Balling is obsolete. Brix is nearly universal in the food industry, but 
Baume and Oechsle are convertible units 
used in other countries. The Brix in the 
past has tended to be termed degrees Brix, 
but this unnecessary and is not followed in 
other food industry practice. 
Byproduct: A product produced incidentally 
to winemaking not made from or diminish­
ing the yield of wine. Cream of tartar or 
grape seed oil are examples. (See also Alter­
native and Specialty products.) 
DC: Temperature in Celsius (or Centigrade) 
degrees. Water freezes at O°C and boils at 
lOO°e. 
Case: A standard wine case contains 12 bot­
tles, 750 mL each, and therefore a total of 9 
liters. 
Champagnes: Either sparkling (high-C0 2) 
wines from the Champagne district in 
France or (clearly designated) similar wines 
from elsewhere including the United States. 
The French argue for only the first defini­
tion and as a result terms such as Sekt in 
Germany and Cava in Spain have been sub­
stituted. 
Chaptalization: Term for the addition of 
sugar to musts before fermentation in order 
to obtain adequate alcohol in the wine. 
Regulated by laws in most countries, prohib­
ited in California, similar results may be 
permitted by adding grape concentrate or 
reserved sweet juice. Named for the French­
man popularizing it, Chaptal. 
Charmat process: Secondary fermentation of 
sparkling wine in large (bulk) tanks rather 
than individual bottles. Named for the 
French originator. 
Climate: The typical weather for a given 
place, usually large-scale areas. Climatic Re­
gions I-V: A system of characterizing and 
comparing vineyard regions and subregions 
based upon average heat summation. Meso­
climate: Local variations within a vineyard 
or among nearby vineyards which affect typ­
ical weather seen by grapevines, e.g., a sun­
facing slope versus a relatively shaded one. 