Microclimate: The weather as modified by 
very local conditions in and about a specific 
VIne. 
Clone: A new vine or a group of vines pro­
duced from a cutting of one parent vine 
and therefore genetically identical. By ex­
trapolation and with increasing chance for 
slight variation depending upon the num­
ber of transfers, the term may be used (mis­
used) for propagants from a group of vines 
representing a uniform varietal vineyard. 
Cold Duck: A nearly vanished recent faddish 
type of sparkling wine blended from red 
(often Concord in the United States) and 
white base wines and produced by the Char­
mat process. 
Concentrate: Concentrated grape juice, 
white unless otherwise stated, prepared by 
vacuum and low temperature for use in 
sweetening other food products including 
musts and wines. Rectified concentrate is a 
term being introduced from Europe with 
legalistic limitations involving further pro­
cessing to eliminate most characteristics 
other than sugar. 
Coolers: A blended beverage commonly 
about half wine and half dilute acidic solu­
tion or fruit juices and other flavorings os­
tensibly for hot-weather and lower-alcohol 
(6% or so) situations. Dwindling in impor­
tance. 
Cooperage: Winery containers generally. De­
rived from barrels and other wooden con­
tainers made by coopers. 
Cream of tartar: Potassium bitartrate, the 
predominant crystalline deposit forming in 
wine. Purified from wine tartar (argols), it is 
a byproduct useful in cooking. 
Crusher destemmer: Usually a single ma­
chine, but possibly two separate units, to 
remove the grape berries from their rachises 
and break them open for fermentation or 
juice removal. The objective is ordinarily 
complete removal of the cluster stems and 
100% opening of the berries with minimal 
grinding or solids dispersal into the fluid. Glossary 577 
Cuvee: The term (derived from French) 
for the particular blend of base wines to be 
used to make a sparkling wine. 
Decanting: Transfer of relatively clear wine 
(usually bottled wine) by pouring off leaving 
undisturbed sediments and crusts behind. 
(See also Racking.) 
Delle concept: Noting that high content of 
either sugar or alcohol prevented yeast 
growth and a combination of the two gave 
more microbial stability than the same con­
tent of either alone, Delle (a Russian) de­
vised a scheme of units to predict stability of 
sweet wines. The units are not very reliable, 
but the concept is important in explaining 
why table wines at relatively low alcohol 
content (Sauternes, for example) are stable 
if their sugar is high enough. The phe­
nomenon appears to result from stress on 
the yeast by either or both components. 
DMDC (Dimethyl dicarbonate): Supersedes 
DEPC (diethyl pyrocarbonate). Kills yeasts 
to sterilize wines. Decomposes sponta­
neously in aqueous solution to carbon diox­
ide and small amounts of methanol. 
Dry: The descriptor for a wine without fer­
mentable sugar and/or no detectable taste 
of sweetness from sugar. Commonly, less 
than 2 giL of reducing sugars. 
Dyer: Preferred English term for the French 
tientuner (same meaning) used here for a 
red grape that has red pulp and juice and 
not just red berry skin, as is usual. Such 
varieties are useful to make a very red wine 
for blending with wines undesirably weak in 
red color. 
Enology: The science and technology (and 
residual artful know-how) of making and 
processing wine in all of its complexity. The 
original spelling was oenology. 
Estate bottling: Various wordings and legal 
nuances are involved, but the intent is to 
indicate that the grapes were produced by 
or at minimum under the specific control of 
the ownership of the bottling winery. Pro-