578 Glossary 
gressively less direct control is indicated by 
such terms as "produced and bottled by," 
"cellared and bottled by," or "bottled by." 
Ester: A type of chemical compound formed 
from an acid and an alcohol by the elimina­
tion of water or hydrolyzed back to its con­
stituent acid and alcohol by addition of the 
elements of water. The smallest major ester 
of interest in wines is the four-carbon ethyl 
acetate formed from acetic acid and ethyl 
alcohol. Organic esters of this type, espe­
cially those with about eight carbons, are 
attractively fruity in smell. 
Exp: The exponent of the natural logarithm 
base e: exp(2) is e2• 
Extract: Extract in wines is defined as the 
nonvolatile dissolved solids of the wine and 
ordinarily is expressed in Brix (see Brix). It 
is important to recognize that residual sugar 
contributes to extract and to pay attention 
to whether the values given are total extract 
or sugarfree extract. A high-extract dry wine 
is one that has had considerable pomace 
contact and also may have high glycerol 
from fermentation. 
"F: Fahrenheit temperature, water freezes at 
32°F and boils at 212°F. Replace with °C. 
(See also °C.) 
FAN (Free Amino Nitrogen): Amino acid ni­
trogen exclusive of proline (an imino acid), 
usable by yeasts, ammonia is not included. 
Fennenter: The agent for fermentation; one 
who or that which causes or conducts fer­
mentation. For examples "he is a fermenter 
of Cabernets" or "that yeast is a galactose 
fermenter." 
Fennentor: An apparatus for fermentation. 
"The wine was fermented in a stainless steel 
fermentor. " 
Fining: Clarification of wines or possibly 
musts by addition of agents, usually insolu­
ble or colloidal ones such as bentonite or 
gelatin, which combine with incipient haze 
formers and precipitate them and them­
selves from solution. Flavonoid: Natural CIS phenols formed with 
two benzene rings connected by a three­
carbon bridge. Includes anthocyanins, cate­
chins (flavan-3-0ls), flavonols, and con­
densed tannins in grapes and wines. They 
are responsible for the red colors, much of 
the brown colors, the astringency, and the 
known bitterness of wines. (See also Phenols') 
Flavor: The overall sensory character includ­
ing odors, tastes, and feelings such as astrin­
gency' body, or perhaps "texture." 
Flavored wines: Vermouths and Special Nat­
ural Wines are those that incorporate fla­
vors from other sources (natural) besides 
grapes. 
Fortification: (See WSA). 
Fractional blending: (See Solera System). 
Fusel oil: A distillation fraction from wine or 
its constituents in wines, primarily higher 
(more than two-, usually five-carbon) alco­
hols. (See also Higher Alcohols.) 
GAE (Gallic Acid Equivalent): Based upon 
phenol assay (usually by Folin-Ciocalteu 
reagent) with gallic acid as comparison stan­
dard usually in mg/L for wines or mg/kg 
for grapes. 
GRAS (Generally Recognized As Safe): A 
term introduced into food regulations to 
cover substances considered to have such 
long and widespread usage that further spe­
cific testing is superfluous and wasteful, su­
crose for example. 
Grafting: The operation of splicing a scion 
cutting to a rootstock to produce a single 
combined vine. 
Grape seed oil: Oil expressed or extracted 
from grape seeds. A good food, it resembles 
olive oil in composition. It can be a useful 
byproduct of winema king, but has been sel­
dom economic. 
Hard: The less desirable flavor impression of 
a red wine both bitter and tart and often 
tannic. The antonym of soft-a wine with­
out excess in these features. It mayor may 
not disappear with appropriate maturation 