and aging, but it should improve. Softer 
wines can, of course, also improve with age. 
Headspace: The gas volume, usually deliber­
ate, above the wine in a container including 
bottles, for example, "That wine was bot­
tled with a headspace of 5 mL, but with 10 
years of aging an ullage (see Ullage) of 50 
mL developed." 
Hectare: An are is 10 X 10 m or 100 square 
m. A hectare is therefore 100 X 100m = 
10,000 m2 or 2.47 acres. 
Hectoliter: One hundred liters. A common 
unit for wine processing tabulations in Eu­
rope equal to 26.4 u.S. gallons. We prefer 
kiloliters 00 hectoliters) for two major rea­
sons: more directly related to metric tons 
and easier to visualize in relation to old 
practices in the U.S. wine industry Obs 11000 
gal.). (See also Kiloliter.) 
HPLC (High Performance Liquid Chromatog­
raphy): A modern instrumental technique 
to separate and quantitate compounds pre­
sent in complex solutions such as wines. 
CLC, gas-liquid chromatography, is a sepa­
rate but analogous procedure limited to 
volatile compounds. 
HTST (High-Temperature Short-Time): Pas­
teurization treatments. 
Higher alcohols: Isoamyl alcohol and rela­
tives with more than two carbons produced 
by fermentation and contributing to heavy, 
fusely tastes, especially in WSA wines and 
brandies (not always undesirable flavors at 
low levels). (See also Fusel oil.) 
Kiloliter: One thousand liters or one m3 (a 
stere). Although hectoliters (1/10 kL) are 
most commonly used in Europe, kL is pre­
ferred in America and one m3 is the SI unit 
of volume. It is easier to visualize (I m3) and 
is more mentally compatible with the obso­
lete usage of Ib/l000 gal. One U.S. gallon 
= 3.785 L; 1 kL = 264.2 gal.; 1 Ib/l000 
gal. = 120 g/kL. 
Laccase: Phenol-oxidizing enzymes not pre­
sent unless produced in grapes by mold Glossary 579 
infection, but important in browning and 
related reactions of moldy grapes. Different 
and usually wider substrate specificity than 
grape PPO (See also PPO.) 
Lactic acid bacteria: Those bacteria capable 
of producing lactic acid (not present from 
grapes or yeasts) in wines, usually by malo­
lactic fermentation. (See also Malolactic Fer­
mentation.) 
Lees: Sediments (yeast, tartrates, seeds, fin­
ing agents, etc.) settled to the bottom of 
wine containers. 
Maceration: Steeping crushed grapes before 
drawing off juice or young wines. Alterna­
tive expressions include skin contact, po­
mace fermentation, etc. 
Maceration, carbonic: Holding whole grape 
clusters in a closed container in an atmo­
sphere of carbon dioxide (possibly self-gen­
erated by respiration) so that they metabo­
lize some of their sugar anaerobically. This 
is properly done at fairly warm temperature 
and for sufficient time, at least several days, 
so that a special flavor and light tannin plus 
vivid color and fruity flavor result in the 
wine made from the pressed juice. The wines 
so produced are termed nouveau style by 
analogy to Beaujolais nouveau. 
Maderization: A rather confusing term prob­
ably better dropped in favor of oxidation 
or I and heated. It derives from the chemi­
cal and sensory characters of Madeira-type 
wines that are both oxidized and baked. It is 
not related to wood-extract flavors as Span­
ish speakers might assume. 
Malolactic fermentation: The conversion by 
specific bacteria of malic acid into lactic 
acid with associated reduction in total acid­
ity and other flavor changes. 
Marc: See Pomace. 
Maturation: The time-related improvement 
of wines before bottling, especially bulk 
maturation in oak containers. Mter matura­
tion appropriate to the type and style, a 
wine is considered mature, ready, and ripe 
to bottle. 