580 Glossary 
Mildews: Filamentous fungi (molds) includ­
ing downy mildew and powdery mildew that 
cause disease on grape vines or others that 
may cause unsightly growths on winery walls, 
etc. Obligate aerobes, they can not grow in 
properly stored wine. 
MOG (Material Other than Grapes): Con­
taminants such as leaves in harvested grapes. 
Must: The grape material ready to be fer­
mented. Whole must is usually crushed but 
destemmed grapes and must pumps are de­
signed to handle this mash without appre­
ciable grinding. When the pomace has been 
removed, the resultant juice, whether fur­
ther clarified or not, can be called must if it 
is to be fermented or further fermented, 
but the general term must usually implies 
whole must, and juice or young wine are the 
terms preferred for certain clarity, if they 
are meant. 
Mute: Pronounced "mutay," this is grape 
juice prevented from fermentation, often by 
high additions of S02 or other means, in­
tended for later use in making wines. An 
adopted French term. 
Noble rot: The term for desired infection of 
wine grapes by Botrytis cinerea under circum­
stances of weather and season such that a 
shriveled berry results with high sugar con­
tent suitable for making sweet table wines 
such as Sauternes or Trockenbeerenausle­
sen. 
OIV (The Office International de la Vigne et 
du Vin): Based in Paris, performs many 
useful functions in gathering worldwide 
grape and wine statistics, codifying regula­
tions and analytical procedures, etc. It pub­
lishes their Bulletin (BOIV), which also in­
cludes useful briefs on other publications. 
Overcropped: The condition of a vine carry­
ing so much crop load that it is unable to 
produce enough photosynthesis to properly 
mature the fruit. Ordinarily indicated by 
inadequate sugar development and failure 
to ripen properly. Pectin: Complex polysaccharides involving 
galacturonic acid, its methyl ester, and other 
sugar derivatives. They contribute to viscos­
ity and sometimes hazes of musts and wines. 
Shortened and solubilized by pectinase en­
zymes. 
Pedicel: The small cap stem attaching each 
grape berry to the rachis. 
Peptides: Short polymers of amino acids, 
pieces (polypeptides longer) of proteins. (See 
also Proteins.) 
pH: An acidity scale. The negative of the 
logarithm of the molar hydrogen ion con­
centration in a solution such as wine or 
must. At pH 7.0 the solution is neutral, 
below it is increasingly acidic and tart to a 
minimum of zero, and above increasingly 
alkaline to a maximum of 14. For wine 
grape juices and wines, 3.2-3.8 is generally 
to be expected, with lower than that rela­
tively underripe and sour or above overripe 
and flat-tasting. Since pH is an exponential 
(base 10) function, relatively small numeri­
cal differences in pH correlate with large 
reactivity and flavor differences. 
Phage: (see Bacteriophage) 
Phenols: Chemical compounds consisting of 
a benzene ring with at least one hydroxyl 
group. Those naturally occurring in plants 
are termed polyphenols and usually have at 
least two hydroxyl groups, usually vicinal 
(side by side). The group includes phenolic 
acids, cinnamates, flavonoids, and tannins 
in grapes and wines. 
Phylloxera: A serious grape insect pest native 
to Eastern North America which, when in­
troduced to European grape vines, causes 
vineyard decline and death. Dactylasphaera 
vitifoliae (formerly called Phylloxera vitifoliae 
or P. vastatrix) has a complicated life cycle, 
including a flying form causing leaf galls on 
resistant grape species in humid climates 
and the universal and more devastating 
small yellow root louse forms. Vitis species 
native to the endemic areas for this pest are 
resistant and can be used as rootstocks or 