breeding stock for resistance. Other species 
of phylloxera specifically attack other plants, 
oak, for example. 
Pomace: The solids (grape skins and seeds 
especially) left after wine or juice is drained 
and pressed from the whole must or young 
wine. Marc and press cake are essentially 
the same. Pronounced "pumice," pomace 
may be sweet (unfermented) or dry (fer­
mented) and may be the source of recover­
able alcohol or other byproducts as well as a 
waste disposal problem. 
ppm (Parts per million): For wine, usually 
milligrams per liter, but any value, prefer­
ably in the same units, such as Ib/million 
lb. A confusing term which should be re­
placed by more specific SI units. Particularly 
confusing in comparing liquid and gaseous 
concentrations. (See Chapter 1). 
PPO (Polyphenol Oxidase): The natural 
browning enzyme of grapes and most other 
plant products. Present in juices to varying 
degrees. 
Proof: A measure of alcohol content usually 
limited to distilled beverages. One % by 
volume of ethanol equals 2 V.S. proof mea­
sured at 60°F. British proof is slightly dif­
ferent. Proof spirit is 100 proof(50% vol/vol 
ethanol). 
Proof gallon: One V.S. gallon (3.785 L) of 
100 proof (50% vol/vol) ethanol or the 
equivalent amount of ethanol. 
Proteins: Relatively large chains of amide-lin­
ked amino acids. Twenty amino acids are 
commonly involved and may also be linked 
to other subunits such as carbohydrates 
(glycoproteins). Enzymes are proteins and 
the most common haze producers in white 
wines are proteins. 
Pump over: The operation of transferring 
fluid, especially fermenting red wine, from 
low in the container back over the surface, 
particularly the cap of floating grape skins. 
The term may be applied to similar proce­
dures such as mixing tanks of wine to dis-Glossary 581 
tribute or keep distributed fining agents, 
etc. Punching down is an alternative proce­
dure of submerging the cap during macera­
tions such as red wine fermentations. 
Quality: The summation of intrinsic factors 
such as color, odor, and flavor that cause 
knowledgeable and discriminating cus­
tomers to say that that one wine is better 
and worth more than another one. Obvi­
ously varying from wine type to wine type, 
subjective, and prone to frequent disagree­
ment even among enologists, high quality is, 
nevertheless, an all-important goal with 
wine. 
Rachis: The stem of the grape cluster. 
Racking: The process almost invariably fol­
lowed during transfer of bulk wine by 
pumping or siphoning the relatively clear 
top portion away without or prior to dis­
turbing the sediment (lees). Like decanting, 
except applied to bulk wine handling and 
not to simple pouring of wine from one 
container to another or individual bottles. 
Racking arm: A gooseneck tube and valve 
arrangement through the lower end of a 
tank rotatable so as to enable removal of 
clear fluid down to near the lees. 
Raisin: The French word for grape which, in 
English, has become restricted to raisins sec 
or dried grapes, ordinarily sun-dried with 
the characteristic flavor, high sugar, brown 
color, etc. 
Rose: The French word for pink (pro­
nounced rozay) applied to light red wines, 
especially pink table wines. 
Saccharomyces: Literally "sugar fungus" from 
Latin; the generic (genus) scientific name 
for yeasts of the type used in wine fermenta­
tions. 
Scion: The portion of a vine that carries the 
aboveground grape variety when grafted to 
a rootstock. 
Skin contact: The operation (and conditions, 
especially time and temperature) of macer­
ating the solids (pomace, skins, seeds) of 