582 Glossary 
grapes with the fluid juice or fermenting 
wine. Necessary in the typical conversion of 
red grapes into red wine, but sometimes 
used in other contexts, such as making 
heavier white wines. 
Sluggish fennentation: A fermentation that 
proceeds more slowly than it should. (See 
Stuck) 
Solera system: A fractional blending system 
developed for Spanish sherry. 
Sparkling wines: Champagnes and other 
wines fermented a second time in a closed 
system (Charmat tank or individual bottle) 
so that the carbon dioxide generated re­
mains in the wine. Distinguished from car­
bonated wines which are charged with sepa­
rately collected carbon dioxide in the same 
way as soda pop. 
Specialty product: Wine or wine-containing 
product not usually or traditionally made, 
e.g., wine coolers, de alcoholized wine. (See 
also Alternative products and Byproducts) 
Spoilage yeast: Those yeasts, in the context 
of this book, which mayor may not be able 
to complete a fermentation of grape juice, 
but produce off odors, off flavors, or turbid­
ity where not wanted. Species of all the 19 
or so wine-related yeast genera can be in­
cluded. (See also Yeast). 
Statistics: (1) Collected data, usually numeri­
cal, characterizing wine production, e.g., L 
or Tm by variety, vintage, area, etc.; and (2) 
the branch of mathematics and the proce­
dures employed to estimate the typicality 
and believability of experimental or variable 
results. 
Stemmy: A characteristic flavor imparted by 
not or incompletely removing the cluster 
stems (rachises) during winemaking. It is 
reminiscent of herbaceous, peppery, bitter 
components. 
Stuck: A fermentation that has halted before 
the expected completion owing to exces­
sively high temperature, unanticipated nu­
trient shortage, etc. Style: The characteristics within a wine type 
that are intended to distinguish one wine 
from another. For example, in the category 
of young varietal Zinfandel red table wines, 
we would emphasize a raspberry-fruity style, 
others might emphasize more vinous, tannic 
character. 
Sulfur dioxide: The gas (S02) formed by 
burning sulfur in air. Quite soluble in water 
and easily compressed to a liquid, it is un­
pleasant to work around, but useful for 
hundreds of years as a constituent or addi­
tive in juices and wines to prevent undesir­
able chemical and microbial deterioration. 
It may be liberated under appropriate con­
ditions (especially acidity) from its salts such 
as potassium metabisulfite (pyrobisulfite, 
K2S205) or other bisulfites and sulfites. 
Sur lies: A French term meaning "on lees" 
used to designate a rather specific type of 
maceration on the yeast lees, usually with 
periodic stirring and especially with barrel­
fermented Chardonnay wine. A complex 
flavor can result from the yeast leakage over 
time. 
Table wines: Here the term means all those 
grape wines that are made by a single, com­
plete fermentation. They are therefore lim­
ited to about 12% alcohol (under 14% by 
U.S. tax category) unless made from botry­
tized musts or dried grapes. They are in­
tended as a beverage to accompany a meal. 
In other languages, table wine can be a 
slightly denigrating term signifying ordinary 
quality, but that is not implied here. Table 
wines include the finest wines of the types 
and styles as well as the everyday ones. 
Tannin, tannic: Large, astringent, protein­
precipitating natural phenols and their fla­
vor effect in wines. Grapes contain, espe­
cially in the seeds, condensed tannins 
(flavonoid polymers), whereas oak barrel 
extract and tannic acid used in fining are 
hydrolyzable into gallic and/or ellagic acid. 
They have similar flavor and hide-to-Ieather 
tanning effects, but different chemistry. 