Taste: Strictly, the mouth sensations sensed 
by the taste buds including bitter, salty, tart 
(acidic), and sweet. Commonly, the other 
oral sensations of astringency, body, and 
hotness or pungency are also included. (See 
also Flavor). 
Tawny: The brick-red color which develops 
as red wine ages usually with some oxida­
tion, as opposed to bright red or blue-red. A 
defect in wines intended to be fresh and 
fruity like most roses, but expected and 
often a mark of quality in mature red wines. 
It indicates a special style in ports, and, if 
produced by heating the wine, is not neces­
sarily viewed as a quality improvement. 
TCA: A perfect example of why we detest 
jargon. This term has been used for the 
tricarboxylic acid cycle (Kreb's or citric acid 
cycle) of aerobic metabolism, trichloroacetic 
acid (a protein precipitant), and 2,4,6-tri­
chloroanisole (an active corky odorant). 
Terpene: A class of compounds biochemi­
cally derived from mevalonic acid and made 
up of five-carbon isoprene units. Ten-carbon 
monoterpenes are important odorants of 
the highly aromatic muscat grapes and wines 
from them and relatives. 
Tm: See Ton, metric. 
Ton, metric: Sometimes written tonne and 
essentially equivalent to a long ton in the 
obsolete English system, it is 1000 kg. One 
T M equals 2204.6 Ib or 1.1 U.S. English 
tons. A quintal (q) is 0.1 T M' 100 kg, or 
220.5 lb. The equivalent term megagram, 
Mg, is seldom used, probably from potential 
confusion with milligram, mg. 
Ullage: The amount that a container lacks of 
being full, especially if occasioned by loss 
from an originally full condition. (Pro­
nounced uh-lage) (See Headspace). 
VA (Volatile Acidity): The portion of the to­
tal acidity that is volatile (distillable away 
from the fixed acidity) representing acetic 
acid and relatives. It is considered indicative 
of microbiological (acetobacter) spoilage, if 
appreciable. Red table wines with more than 
1.4 giL as acetic and other grape wines Glossary 583 
with more than 1.2 giL are by U.S. regula­
tions too high to be marketed as unspoiled 
wines. Wines high in acetic acid are or 
become also high in ethyl acetate and the 
latter is more odorous. 
Varietal: A wine named for the variety of 
grapes from which it was made. By U.S. 
regulations it must be from a minimum of 
75% of the named grape, with additional 
rules if more than one variety is named. 
Vector: Transporting agent for disease, e.g., 
nematodes can be vectors for grapevine 
viruses. 
Veraison: The French word for ripening now 
adopted specifically for the onset of ripen­
ing of grapes. The transition stage marking 
the beginning of sugar accumulation, berry 
softening, chlorophyll loss, and anthocyanin 
formation. 
Vinegar: Wine and other (designated) alco­
holic beverages aerobically converted by 
Acetobacter into condiments rich in acetic 
acid and ethyl acetate for salad dressing and 
similar usage. Formerly, now seldom, a 
spoiled wine. An alternate product for 
wineries. 
Vinification: The process of making wines 
from grapes. 
Vinous: The flavor that denotes wine without 
specific varietal aromas or special bouquets. 
Vintage: A specific harvest season for grapes 
and the resultant wine. By U.S. regulations 
designation on a wine label of the year of 
harvest requires that 95% of the wine was 
made from grapes harvested during that 
year. 
Vintner: Properly, a seller of wines. 
Viticulture: The science and technology of 
grape growing. 
Vitis: The botanical genus of grapes. Species 
include most importantly vinifera (the clas­
sic wine grapes), labrusca or labruscana 
(Concord and relatives), and several other 
species less known for fruit, but useful for 
other purposes. Hybrids are genetic crosses 
involving more than one species of grape. 