63 Steamed DumplingsCRYSTAL CHIVE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
These are traditionally made with shrimp filling, but here’s a vegan-friendly version. If you 
can’t find Chinese garlic chives, use regular chives or scallions.
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
4 ounces fresh shiitake 
mushrooms, stemmed and 
roughly chopped
Pinch kosher salt
1 (10-ounce) package 
frozen spinach, defrosted, 
squeezed, and chopped
1/2 bunch fresh Chinese garlic 
chives, roughly chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 batch Crystal Dumpling 
Dough (page 21), at room 
temperature
Nonstick cooking spray
Mix it uP: During early spring, 
look for fresh pea shoots at 
Asian markets. They make a 
tasty alternative to the chives in 
this filling.1. Make the filling: In a skillet over medium-high heat, 
heat the vegetable oil. Swirl to coat the skillet and 
add the mushrooms. Sauté for 1 minute, then add 
the salt, spinach, chives, and garlic. Cook for about 
2 minutes until the spinach and chives are heated 
through. Stir in the soy sauce and sesame oil and 
transfer the filling to a medium bowl to cool.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer. Lightly coat the bottoms 
of two steamer baskets with cooking spray. Place the 
dumplings in the steamer baskets, leaving at least 
1 inch of space between each.
6. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
simmer. Steam for 8 to 10 minutes, adding more 
water, as needed.
7. Remove the baskets from the heat and serve the 
dumplings directly from the baskets. 
  VEGAN