7 Dumplings Made Simple Sweet potato flour: The main ingredient in crystal dumpling dough, this turns from 
opaque white to translucent when cooked. In a pinch, potato starch or wheat starch 
works as a substitute.
Tapioca starch: Extracted from the cassava root, this starch makes crystal dump-
ling dough more pliable. A little goes a long way, so buy a small amount.
FILLINGS
Bamboo shoots: Y oung and tender bamboo shoots have a soft texture, like green 
beans, and a mild flavor, like celery.  Like water chestnuts, they can be found fresh 
seasonally at many Asian markets and canned ones, whole or sliced, are available at 
most conventional grocery stores.
Cabbage: In dumpling fillings, cabbage is lightly salted to remove as much water 
as possible to improve its flavor and texture. Napa cabbage, softer in texture and 
milder in flavor than regular cabbage, is another good option. Use the broad outer 
leaves to line the bottoms of steamer baskets when cooking dumplings.
Chinese five-spice powder: A classic ground spice blend of star anise, cinnamon, 
cloves, fennel seeds, and Sichuan peppercorns, five-spice gives a pleasant warming 
sensation without being too “spicy. ”
Curry powder: A little bit of this spice blend goes a long way; choose mild or hot to 
your liking.
Ground chicken, pork, or turkey: Ground (or minced) meat is an ingredient in tra-
ditional dumpling fillings.
Mushrooms: When cooked down to remove water content, chopped mushrooms 
stand in nicely for ground meat. Dried shiitake mushrooms can be rehydrated in hot 
water, or processed to a fine powder to add more umami flavor.
Shrimp: Another popular filling ingredient, shrimp can be combined with ground 
meat. Shu mai uses small amounts of ground dried baby shrimp in the filling to 
provide a savory base.
Sichuan peppercorns: These are actually seeds from trees grown in China’s Sich-
uan province. Their slight lemony flavor creates a tingling sensation in your mouth.
Spinach: Dark greens provide great color and texture to fillings. Wilt and squeeze 
the spinach as dry as possible before chopping and adding it to the filling.