70
 Dumplings for BeginnersCLASSIC PORK POTSTICKERS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 30 minutes
My mom always kept a bag of homemade potstickers in the freezer. My brother would cook 
up a batch for an after-school snack. It was the most satisfying treat ever.
2 cups finely shredded 
Napa cabbage
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2/3 pound ground pork
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: Try this method 
with the filling from the Spicy 
Shrimp Dumplings (page 47) 
and let me know what you think!1. Make the filling: Wilt the cabbage with the salt and 
let sit for 30 minutes, or until the cabbage has wilted. 
Rinse, then squeeze out as much water as possible.
2. In a medium bowl, toss together the cabbage, ground 
pork, ginger, soy sauce, sesame oil, and rice wine 
until combined. Refrigerate while you roll the dough, 
or up to 2 hours.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each wrapper.
5. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil. When the oil is almost smoking, arrange half the 
potstickers in the skillet without letting them touch. 
Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes. 
7. Carefully pour 2/3 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
8. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. Cook 
for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has evapo-
rated and the potsticker bottoms are browned and 
crisp.  Repeat with the remaining dumplings and oil.