71
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsCABBAGE AND MUSHROOM GYOZA
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Japanese gyoza are usually made with thinner wrappers than Chinese potstickers. They are 
less chewy, and the bottoms are crispier. Make another batch to freeze and have on hand 
whenever the craving strikes!
2 cups finely shredded 
green cabbage
1 tablespoon kosher salt
4 dried shiitake mushrooms
8 large fresh shiitake 
mushrooms, stemmed and 
finely chopped
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
or tamari
1 teaspoon rice vinegar
24 store-bought gyoza 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: Pork and cabbage 
is a classic gyoza filling.1. Make the filling: Wilt the cabbage with the salt and 
let sit for 30 minutes. Rinse, then squeeze out as 
much water as possible.
2. In a food processor, pulse the dried shiitake mushrooms 
until nearly powdered. Add the fresh mushrooms, cab-
bage, ginger, soy sauce, and rice wine and pulse until 
thoroughly combined. Cover and set aside.
3. Fold the dumplings: Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting 
board and place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center 
of each. Moisten the outer edges of the wrapper with 
cornstarch slurry.
4. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil and swirl to coat the skillet. When the oil is almost 
smoking, arrange half the gyoza in the skillet without 
letting them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes. Reduce 
the heat if the gyoza are browning too quickly.
6. Carefully pour 2/3 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
7. Remove the lid and increase the heat to 
medium-high. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all 
the water has evaporated and the gyoza bottoms 
are browned and crisp.  Repeat with the remain-
ing dumplings. 
  VEGAN