72
 Dumplings for BeginnersKIMCHI MANDU
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 45 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Kimchi is briny, crunchy, and so delicious. If you’re like me, you’ve probably got a jar in the 
back of your refrigerator, and this dumpling is a great way to use it up. And an accompani -
ment to these dumplings? More kimchi, of course!
2 cups mung bean sprouts
1 tablespoon kosher salt
11/2 cups kimchi
8 ounces firm tofu, diced
1 small shallot, 
roughly chopped
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, roughly chopped
2 garlic cloves, 
roughly chopped
1 large egg
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: These dumplings 
work well steamed or in a 
soup, like Hot and Sour Soup 
(page 93).1. Make the filling: In a saucepan, bring 4 cups water 
to a boil. Add the bean sprouts and salt. Return the 
water to a boil, drain, and rinse the sprouts under 
cold water. Set aside to drain well.
2. In a food processor, combine the kimchi, tofu, 
shallot, scallions, and garlic and pulse until finely 
chopped. Squeeze out excess water from the sprouts 
and add them to the processor. Add the egg and 
sesame oil and pulse to combine.
3. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and refriger -
ate while you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
6. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegeta-
ble oil and swirl to coat the skillet. When the oil is 
almost smoking, arrange half the dumplings in the 
skillet without letting them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 
3 minutes. Reduce the heat if browning too quickly. 
 VEGETARIAN