74
 Dumplings for BeginnersPAN-FRIED CHICKEN AND 
GREEN BEAN MOMOS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
The chewy-crunchy texture of this dumpling skin works well with its chicken filling studded 
with crunchy bits of green bean. Momos and dumplings are virtually the same thing—
steamed dumplings with a flour-based wrapper.
2/3 pound ground chicken 
(dark meat preferred)
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon oyster sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 cup green beans, cut into 
1/ 4-inch pieces
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: For a deeper 
umami flavor, use black 
bean sauce instead of oyster 
sauce. For a sweeter flavor, try 
hoisin sauce.1. Make the filling: In a medium bowl, stir together the 
ground chicken, cornstarch, oyster sauce, sesame 
oil, and ginger until smooth. Fold in the green beans, 
cover the bowl, and refrigerate while you roll the 
dough, or up to 2 days.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
4. Fold the dumplings using the Soup Dumpling Fold 
(see page 30).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil and swirl to coat the skillet. When the oil is almost 
smoking, pan-fry half the dumplings in the skillet for 
2 to 3 minutes. 
6. Carefully pour 1/ 4 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
7. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has 
evaporated and the momo bottoms are browned and 
crisp.  Repeat with the remaining batch.