8 Dumplings for BeginnersWater chestnuts: These starchy nuggets are tender but crunchy. If you can’t find 
fresh ones, canned versions already peeled and sliced work fine.
White pepper: Adding white pepper to fillings avoids marring the dish’s aesthetics 
with black pepper flecks. It also gives a more earthy flavor than the basic heat of 
black pepper. White peppercorns are the same as black peppercorns, except that 
white ones are soaked and have their outer husks removed.
SEASONINGS, SAUCES, AND ACCOMPANIMENTS
Black bean sauce: Popular for stir-fry recipes, black bean sauce can instantly trans-
form a simple dumpling filling by adding more flavor.
Black vinegar (Chinkiang): A rich, dark rice vinegar like aged balsamic vinegar; 
used in dipping sauces and marinades to lend an acidic balance.
Hoisin sauce: Hoisin is a sweet and salty soybean and chili sauce used often as an 
ingredient in fillings.
Kimchi: A spiced, fermented cabbage condiment from Korean cuisine is an essen-
tial ingredient in kimchi mandu. Keep a jar in your refrigerator. It keeps for months 
and can be added to virtually anything to enhance flavor (eggs, noodles, steamed 
rice, etc.).
Oyster sauce: Made from fermented oyster extract/flavoring, this dark, thick sauce 
is full of umami flavor. Y ou can find vegetarian oyster-free versions of this sauce, if 
you prefer.
Salted mustard greens: These greens add a nice contrast to rich, fatty fillings, such 
as the one you might find in pork wontons.
Sesame oil: The nutty aroma and flavor of sesame oil boosts overall flavor and adds 
richness to your dumpling filling.
Shaoxing rice wine: Fermented rice wine with a low alcohol content (look for 15 to 
16 percent ABV) adds depth of flavor to fillings, especially those with ground meat. 
Double-check the label for no more than 1.5 percent salt.  Salt increases shelf life. 
Dry sherry can be used as a substitute.
Soy sauce: Use Chinese-style soy in Chinese recipes and Japanese-style soy in Jap-
anese recipes. In Chinese cooking there are three types of soy sauce: light (thinner, 
lighter, and saltier), dark (deeper flavor and less salty), and a mushroom-flavored 
soy that adds an umami punch.