77
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsDEEP-FRIED TURKEY WONTONS
Makes 24 wontons PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
I love using ground turkey for deep-fried wontons instead of pork when I want a lighter fill -
ing. Using dried mushrooms keeps the filling from becoming too wet, which would explode 
in the hot oil.
4 dried shiitake mushrooms
8 ounces ground turkey 
(dark meat preferred)
2 tablespoons minced 
peeled fresh ginger
1 tablespoon mushroom soy 
sauce or light soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
Pinch ground white pepper
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
3 cups canola oil
Generous pinch kosher salt
Cooking tiP: I prefer using 
ground turkey for deep-fried 
wontons instead of pork 
because it’s leaner, which 
makes a dumpling that’s not 
so heavy; however, use ground 
dark meat turkey, so the filling 
doesn’t turn out dry.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, process the 
mushrooms until finely ground. Add the ground 
turkey, ginger, soy sauce, sesame oil, rice wine, 
and white pepper. Pulse to combine, then process 
to form a smooth paste.  T ransfer the filling to a 
medium bowl.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
3. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
4. Cook and serve: In a wok or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat, heat the canola oil to 375ºF. Set a 
wire rack over a sheet pan and set aside.
5. Working in batches of 4 to 6 wontons, gently 
lower the wontons into the hot oil. Use a skimmer 
to flip the wontons or to keep them submerged 
in the hot oil. Fry for 5 to 6 minutes, or until 
browned and crispy.
6. Using a skimmer, transfer the wontons from the 
hot oil to the prepared wire rack. Sprinkle with salt 
while still hot.