78
 Dumplings for BeginnersCRAB RANGOONS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
“Have you ever had these before? They are little bites of heaven!” is how my friend Shannon 
introduced me to these delicious deep-fried crab puffs. Crab rangoons were first developed  
in San Francisco as an appetizer; but really, any time is a good time for these crispy 
delights!
4 ounces fresh crabmeat, 
cartilage removed, picked 
through, and squeezed of 
extra moisture 
8 ounces cream cheese, at 
room temperature
1 scallion, white and green 
parts, minced
1 teaspoon Worcester -
shire sauce 
1/ 4 teaspoon garlic powder
Pinch kosher salt, plus 
more for seasoning
Pinch ground white pepper
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
3 cups canola oil
Cooking tiP: Canned crab 
or imitation crab sticks (also 
called surimi or seafood 
cocktail sticks) also work well 
here and would be cheaper 
than crab.1. Make the filling: Set aside 2 tablespoons of crab-
meat. In a medium bowl, combine the remaining 
crab, cream cheese, scallion, Worcestershire sauce, 
garlic powder, salt, and white pepper. Mix thoroughly 
until smooth and fold in the reserved crab.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrapper with corn-
starch slurry.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Parcel Fold (see  
page 29). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a wok or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat, heat the canola oil to 375ºF. Set a 
wire rack over a sheet pan and set aside.
6. Working in batches of 4 to 6 dumplings at a time, 
gently lower the dumplings into the hot oil. Use a 
skimmer to flip the rangoons or to keep them sub-
merged in the hot oil. Fry for 4 to 5 minutes, or until 
browned and crispy.
7. Using a skimmer, transfer the rangoons from the 
hot oil to the prepared rack. Sprinkle with salt 
while still hot.