79
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsBOK CHOY AND SALTED MUSTARD 
GREENS POTSTICKERS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 45 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
This light and flavorful dumpling uses salted mustard greens for a briny crunch. Look for 
them in prepared pouches near the fresh dumpling wrappers at Asian markets.
3 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
4 ounces baby bok choy, 
roughly chopped
1 small onion, grated
1 small carrot, grated
2 teaspoons grated 
peeled fresh ginger
Pinch kosher salt
1/2 cup salted mus-
tard greens, drained 
and chopped
1 tablespoon vegetarian 
stir-fry sauce 
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: This bright-green 
filling is excellent with Crystal 
Dumpling Dough (page 21) 
wrappers, too! Pan-fry them the 
same way for a chewy-crispy 
texture with beautiful vegeta-
bles showing through.1. Make the filling: In a large skillet over medium-high 
heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil, swirling to 
coat the skillet. When the oil just begins to smoke, 
add the bok choy, onion, carrot, and ginger. Season 
with salt and sauté for 7 to 10 minutes until the vege-
tables cook down. 
2. Add the mustard greens, stir-fry sauce, and sesame 
oil and sprinkle in the cornstarch. Stir to combine.  
Remove from the heat and let cool while you roll  
the dough.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil, swirling to coat the skillet. When the oil is almost 
smoking, arrange half the potstickers in the skillet 
as close to one another as possible without letting 
them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or until 
golden brown.
continues ⊲ 
  VEGAN