81
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsPORK AND CHICKEN MANDU
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Mandu are prepared for Lunar New Year celebrations throughout Korea. They can be 
boiled, steamed, or pan-fried. This recipe calls for blended pork and chicken for the filling, 
but feel free to experiment with any combinations you like.
1/3 pound ground pork
1/3 pound ground chicken
Generous pinch kosher salt
1/ 4 head green cabbage,  
grated
1 cup roughly chopped 
mung bean sprouts
1 small onion, grated
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (see page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce 
(page 98), for serving
Mix it uP: Turn your gun 
mandu (pan-fried dumplings) 
into jjin mandu (steamed 
dumplings) by following 
the cooking directions for 
other steamed dumplings in 
chapter 4.1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the 
ground pork, ground chicken, and salt. Mix thor -
oughly until the proteins are combined into a smooth 
paste. Add the cabbage, bean sprouts, onion, soy 
sauce, sesame oil, and garlic and continue to mix the 
ingredients until combined. Cover and refrigerate 
while you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
4. Fold using the Classic Wonton Fold (see page 28). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil. When the oil is almost smoking, arrange half the 
dumplings in the skillet. Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or 
until golden brown.
6. Carefully pour 1/2 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water boils, reduce the heat to low 
and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
7. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has 
evaporated and the bottoms are browned.  Repeat 
with the remaining dumplings. Serve, browned-side 
up, with the dipping sauce on the side.