82
 Dumplings for BeginnersTURKEY AND NAPA CABBAGE POTSTICKERS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour 5 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
A few years ago, I had the honor of creating recipes for a dear friend’s dumpling party 
and gave a dumpling-making lesson to his friends and family. This recipe is inspired by 
that party.
1/ 4 head Napa cabbage, 
finely shredded
1 tablespoon kosher salt
8 ounces ground turkey
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (see page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: This filling makes 
an excellent wonton filling 
for either Traditional Soup 
Wontons (see page 37) or 
Deep-fried Turkey Wontons 
(see page 77).1. Make the filling: In a wire-mesh strainer set over a 
bowl, toss the cabbage with the salt and let sit for 
30 minutes, or until the cabbage has wilted. Rinse, 
then squeeze out as much water as possible.
2. In a food processor, pulse the ground turkey and 
ginger until well mixed. Add the hoisin, rice wine, 
cornstarch, and sesame oil and pulse to form a 
smooth paste. Add the cabbage and pulse to com-
bine. T ransfer the filling to a medium bowl, cover, and 
refrigerate while you roll the dough, or up to 2 hours.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegeta-
ble oil, swirling to coat the skillet. When the oil is 
almost smoking, arrange half the potstickers in the 
skillet without letting them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 
3 minutes, or until golden brown.