84
 Dumplings for BeginnersCURRIED POTATO DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 50 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
These fried potato dumplings are similar to Indian samosas. The combination of potatoes 
and curry makes this a satisfying appetizer or snack.
1 medium russet potato, 
peeled and cut into 
1/2-inch cubes
2 tablespoons kosher 
salt, divided
1 tablespoon unsalted 
butter or coconut oil
1 small shallot, minced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
1 tablespoon curry powder
1/2 cup frozen peas, thawed
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilantro
2 teaspoons freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
3 cups canola oil 
Make it easier: Leftover 
mashed potatoes make this 
filling richer and creamier!1. Make the filling: In a large saucepan, combine the 
potatoes, 1 tablespoon of salt, and enough water to 
cover. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer 
the potatoes for 10 to 12 minutes, or until soft. 
Reserve 1 cup of cooking water and drain the pota-
toes. Set the potatoes aside to dry for 5 minutes.
2. Place the saucepan over medium-high heat and add 
the butter to melt. Add the shallot, garlic, and ginger 
and sauté for about 30 seconds until fragrant. Stir 
in the curry powder and cook for 20 seconds more, 
stirring. Add the potatoes and toss to coat with the 
curry butter.
3. T urn off the heat and mash the potatoes until well 
combined. Season with 1 teaspoon of salt. The 
mixture should be lumpy but thoroughly combined. 
Fold in the peas, cilantro, and lemon juice. Set 
aside to cool.
4. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. Moisten 
the edges of the wrapper with cornstarch slurry.
6. Fold the dumplings using the Parcel Fold  
(see page 29).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a wok or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat, heat the canola oil to 375ºF. Set a 
wire rack over a sheet pan and set aside. 
 VEGETARIAN