9 Dumplings Made Simple The Steps to Dumpling Success
In this section, I’ll give a brief overview of the dumpling-making process. We’ll take a 
deeper dive into dough making and shaping wrappers later, in chapter 2. Y ou’ll find 
that making dumplings doesn’t have to be an all-in-one go. Here, I point out where you 
can break up the steps over a few days. In fact, some fillings develop better flavor and 
texture when left to sit for a day or two.
MAKE YOUR DOUGH
If you can stir together flour and water, you can make dumpling dough from scratch! 
Before we go through making your own wrappers in chapter 2, it’s good to have a 
high-level understanding of the major steps.
Mixing the dough generally involves stirring together the dry and wet ingredients. 
As soon as the mixture forms a shaggy mass, you’ll start kneading it until it turns 
into a smooth ball, which takes 4 to 5 minutes. Resting allows the dough to relax and 
loosen, making it stretchier and more pliable, before rolling and shaping the dough 
into wrappers.
After resting, you can cut the dough into small equal pieces, then roll each piece 
into flat, round wrappers. Keep the dough and wrappers covered with plastic wrap 
as much as possible. Overall, the entire process to prepare the wrappers takes 
about 45 minutes.
MAKE YOUR FILLING
For fillings, my best advice is to have all the ingredients measured before you start. 
Some fillings, at the start of the process, require 20 to 30 minutes of downtime (like 
salting cabbage), so get that going first. Finish the remaining prep while you wait.
When making meat-based fillings, thoroughly mix the filling until it begins to look 
like a thick paste. When squeezed in the palm of your hand, the filling mixture should 
hold together without falling apart. Many fillings benefit from 30 minutes of chilling in 
the refrigerator, or up to two days, if covered tightly. Chilling helps the flavors develop 
and improves the texture of the proteins. This makes dumplings tender and juicy 
when cooked.
Y ou can make the filling a couple days ahead, and if necessary, you can also freeze 
it. Seal the raw filling in gallon-size heavy-duty resealable bags, flatten, and freeze in a 
single layer.
PORTION AND SHAPE YOUR WRAPPERS
After the dough rests, portion and roll out the wrappers. There are two methods for 
portioning—figure out which one works best for you. The first method involves a 