86
 Dumplings for BeginnersFIVE-SPICE CHICKEN BAOS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes, plus 30 minutes to proof  
Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Five-spice powder is a classic blend of star anise, cinnamon, cloves, fennel seeds, and Sich -
uan peppercorns that makes these baos irresistible. When cooking the cauliflower for these 
baos, get it nice and charred to develop maximum flavor. You can also use green beans or 
asparagus, if you prefer.
3 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
1 cup roughly chopped cau-
liflower florets
2 garlic cloves, minced
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
2 teaspoons Chinese 
five-spice powder
Pinch kosher salt
Ground white pepper
2 cups shredded 
cooked chicken
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 batch Bao Dough 
(page 22)
Mix it uP: If you’re heading 
to the Asian market, pick up 
some roast duck and use that 
instead of chicken in this bao. 
It’s so tasty!1. Make the filling: In a large skillet over medium-high 
heat, add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil, swirling to 
coat the skillet. When the oil begins to smoke, add 
the cauliflower and sear for 2 to 3 minutes, or until 
the cauliflower begins to char. Add the garlic and 
ginger and sauté for about 15 seconds until fragrant. 
Add the five-spice powder and season with salt and 
white pepper to taste.
2. Remove from the heat and stir in the chicken, scal-
lions, and sesame oil. T ransfer to a large bowl and set 
aside to cool.
3. Prepare the dough and shape the baos: Line a 
sheet pan with parchment paper and set aside.
4. Cut the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). 
Keep the dough pieces covered under plastic wrap.
5. Use your fingertips to flatten and stretch one piece 
of dough into a 4-inch circle. Place the circle flat 
on one palm. Spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of fill-
ing into the center. Gather the edges of the dough 
together and pinch tightly at the top. Place the bao, 
pinched-side up, on the prepared sheet pan, leaving 
about 2 inches between each bao. Repeat with the 
remaining dough and filling.
6. Loosely cover the buns and let rise for 20 to 
30 minutes, or until they feel puffy.