10 Dumplings for Beginnerskitchen scale: weigh the dough and divide the total weight into 24 equal balls. The 
second method is less exact: divide the dough into two equal pieces. Roll each piece 
into a log 8 inches long, about 11/2 inches thick. Cut the logs into 12 equal pieces and 
roll each piece into a ball. Keep the balls covered with plastic wrap until you are ready 
to roll the wrappers.
T o roll out the wrappers, a short wooden dowel or rolling pin is the best tool; how -
ever, flattening crystal dough using a tortilla press is a great way to get kids to help. 
Keep the wrappers covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out.
When first starting out, roll out six wrappers at a time, then fill and fold the dump-
lings. Wrappers become dry and brittle and will be difficult to pleat the longer they sit 
out. If you have friends and family helping, set up an assembly line: form wrappers, 
then fill, then fold.
FILL AND FOLD YOUR DUMPLINGS
When filling dumplings, less is more. Overfilling leads to burst dumplings when they’re 
cooked. When placing filling in the wrapper, aim for the center of the wrapper and 
slightly flatten and spread the filling, leaving at least 1/ 4-inch of space around the edges 
for sealing.
A good way to fill dumplings is to lay out the wrappers and then portion the filling 
into them all at once. This way, you can focus on placing an equal amount of filling on 
each wrapper. Each dumpling recipe offers guidance on how much filling to place on a 
wrapper, but a generous tablespoon is more than enough.
Folding dumplings takes practice. Restaurant workers fold hundreds of dumplings 
in one shift so muscle memory eventually takes over. Y ou, too, will get better at it the 
more you do it. Even if you have a hard time making decent-looking pleats, as long as 
you get the entire wrapper to seal around the filling so nothing leaks out, you’re good 
to go. My special trick is to pinch and seal tightly with my thumb and index finger, 
using a small dab of cornstarch slurry if the wrapper edges feel too dry.
HOW TO STORE YOUR DUMPLINGS
If you are not planning to cook your freshly folded dumplings right away, store them 
on a baking sheet lined with parchment or wax paper and tightly wrapped with plastic 
wrap. They will keep in the refrigerator for up to two days.
A word on large batches of dumplings: when making multiple batches, keep your 
filling in the refrigerator and work with small portions at a time to keep the filling from 
becoming too warm. Move batches of folded dumplings into the refrigerator while you 
continue to fold. Don’t let the raw dumplings sit out at room temperature for more 
than two hours before storing them properly or cooking them.