 
 GLUTEN-FREE
100
 Dumplings for BeginnersXO SAUCE
Makes 2½ cups PreP  tiMe 15 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
XO sauce is a spicy seafood-based condiment from Hong Kong that packs a savory punch. 
Dried scallops can be a bit pricey, but necessary, for this sauce. You can find them at most 
Asian markets or online. Keep this sauce in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 
1 month.
3 ounces large dried 
scallops
20 dried red chiles,  
stemmed
2 fresh red chiles, chopped
2 shallots, chopped
2 garlic cloves, chopped
3 ounces small dried shrimp
2 ounces bacon, minced
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon dark 
brown sugar
2 teaspoons Chinese 
five-spice powder
2 tablespoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
Cooking tiP: When cooking 
this sauce, open a window and 
turn on your exhaust fan—the 
chiles can be overpowering.1. Place the scallops in a large glass bowl and cover 
with boiling water by 1 inch. Soak for 10 minutes, or 
until the scallops are soft. Reserve 2 tablespoons of 
soaking water, then drain the remaining liquid. Cover 
the bowl and microwave the scallops on high power 
for 3 minutes. Set aside.
2. Once cooled, use your fingers to rub the scallops 
together to loosen into thin shreds about 1/ 4 inch 
long. T ransfer to a clean bowl and set aside.
3. In a food processor, combine the dried chiles, fresh 
chiles, shallots, and garlic. Pulse until minced, scrap-
ing down the sides of the bowl occasionally. Add the 
mixture to the scallops. 
4. In the food processor (no need to clean it), combine 
the shrimp and bacon. Pulse until minced.
5. Heat a skillet or wok over medium-high heat. Add 
the vegetable oil and swirl to coat the skillet. Add 
the shrimp and bacon and cook for 1 to 2 minutes 
until the bacon is browned and crispy. Sprinkle in 
the brown sugar and five-spice powder and cook for 
about 1 minute until the sugar caramelizes.
6. Reduce the heat to medium and add the scallop and 
chili-garlic mixture. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until 
the garlic begins to caramelize. Add the rice wine and 
cook for 2 to 3 minutes until the wine evaporates. 
T ransfer the sauce to a bowl and let cool. 